Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

37°

Senate debates SAVE Act amendments

Senators debate amendments to the SAVE America Act.

WATCH
Syracuse dog shelter location still up in the air more than a year after site search began

by Conor Wight

Thu, July 24, 2025 at 10:07 AM
The city had originally proposed putting the shelter on the Parks and Recreation Dept. Campus (Photo by CNY Central)
3
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
DOG SHELTER
MUNICIPAL
PLANNING
COMMON COUNCIL
SYEISHA BYRD
CONSTRUCTION
PARKS AND RECREATION

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Months after a planning proposal was brought to the Syracuse Common Council to get the ball rolling on a sorely needed municipal dog shelter, the department in charge of its future pulled the legislation. While there is still a stated commitment to getting the shelter built, there's no timeline for when a plan will be reintroduced to councilors let alone when construction will begin.

The city's Parks and Recreation Commissioner, Syeisha Byrd, said that her team needs more time to put together a holistic approach to not only a dog shelter but a reimagining of the department's campus on Spencer Street. That's the site that her team identified as an ideal spot for the dog shelter, drawing questions about it's viability from councilors at a committee meeting in June.

Now, Byrd indicated it's back to the drawing board, suggesting their department is still open to other locations for the shelter.

"We're not giving up on this, this has to happen," Byrd said, "we are just pulling back so that we continue to develop the plan and we're able to develop it in the correct way."

Common Councilors indicated they were surprised by the decision to pull the legislation, which would have approved $500,000 to commence the planning and design phase of the shelter. Councilor Rasheada Caldwell, who chairs the parks committee, said she was informed about an hour before Wednesday's study session. Caldwell said she has questions but ultimately is supportive of the department taking its time.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

"Stepping back and making sure it's done right is important because we don't want to double back," Caldwell said.

After the legislation was first introduced in April, votes were repeatedly tabled. Councilors had asked for a committee meeting to discuss the plan, which wasn't scheduled until June. At that meeting, multiple councilors voiced concerns about using the Parks campus. Some also inquired as to whether there was a comprehensive plan to actually run the shelter once constructed. Byrd said that while they have come up with clearer mock-ups and budgeting options, it's now time to step back and get everything in order before proposing a new vote.

READ THE COMMENTS (3)

She made it clear that this shelter will happen at some point. Advocates have said that a municipal shelter would go a long way to addressing a crisis in the city, with residents coming across stray dogs that they often have no way to help with local shelters constantly at capacity.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.