By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Despite Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh’s relocation plan announced five years ago, the controversial
Christopher Columbus monument
will remain where it is well after the mayor leaves office at the end of this year.
Years of community debate, litigation and advisory group deliberations have not produced a tangible outcome for the statue that
Walsh decided
in 2020 should come down. The only certainty is that it won’t get moved on Walsh’s watch.
In fact, the next mayor will take office Jan. 1 without a proposed final design for a heritage park that the Walsh administration said would replace Columbus.
That’s a step that will come next year at the earliest, following a new round of community outreach and discussion. It will kick off a series of reviews by city boards before a final plan can be approved. And that could lead to renewed litigation from statue preservationists, who already unsuccessfully sued the city once over the statue.
““We’re a little disappointed, but I think (the delay) was necessary,” said Joseph Heath, legal counsel for the Onondaga Nation, which has long fought to relocate the Columbus monument that occupies the nation’s ancestral land. “I think what (the Walsh administration) has done is take it in a careful way.”
A Walsh spokesman blamed lawsuits and the need to follow state and local laws for the sluggish progress at the park.
The Syracuse Christopher Columbus
statue was installed in 1934
, funded and donated to the city by Italian-American immigrants. Columbus’ legacy has become contentious in recent decades. Statue removal advocates point to the explorer’s connections to
slavery and violence against Native Americans
.
In the weeks leading up to this year’s Columbus Day weekend, the
Columbus Monument Corp.
ramped up a social media campaign defending the statue’s importance in local history as a tribute to Italian immigrants who overcame discrimination.
This year, the group has focused on the New York City-based Mellon Foundation, claiming the global philanthropic organization is about to “impose a version of history that suits their
#woke
worldview" by providing funding for the next phase of the Heritage Park project.
“We believe this is simply a shield that the City of Syracuse and the Onondaga Historical Association can hide behind to remove/destroy the historic Columbus Monument,” the monument corporation told syracuse.com in a statement. “We sent this message out to raise awareness of this farce, with the intention of preventing more division in our community.”
Although Mellon has not awarded funding for such work yet, the Onondaga Historical Association has applied for a grant through the foundation’s $250 million Monuments Project, said Lisa Moore, OHA’s executive director.
OHA has been serving as a facilitator for the city’s Heritage Park Advisory Commission, which the mayor established in the wake of his relocation decision. The commission is tasked with fundraising and community engagement toward forming a tangible design recommendation for the site.
Moore said the monument corporation’s statements about the potential role of the Mellon Monuments Project are speculative and premature.
“Until a process is underway, it is hard to tell what the outcome will be,” she said. “Allowing a process that offers a variety of options for communities to consider may be the solution that respects the history of the space while at the same time representing the city we are today, and hope to be in the future.”
Moore said there are many examples of Mellon-funded projects that keep monuments in place but use other interventions to add perspectives on them. She also noted that the monument corporation has publicly stated its support for a heritage park of some type, so there’s common ground to build on.
“The City and the CMC agree that the development of Heritage Park is an important path forward,” she said. “Mayor Walsh was clear that the public space would be designed as an education and heritage site. The Columbus Monument Corporation has used the same language on their webpage, describing it as a solution that, if it is done properly, could be a model for other cities.”
What’s next and when?
After the advisory commission arrives at a final design recommendation for Heritage Park, the city then would decide how to move forward.
That will kick off another phase — the state and local regulatory review process, said Greg Loh, the city’s chief policy officer.
Changes to Columbus Circle, part of a locally designated historic district, must go through a legal maze of local boards and the state’s environmental quality review process.
The Syracuse Common Council at some point would be asked to approve funding for a project, which could include grants and taxpayer dollars, Loh said.
Much of the Heritage Park Advisory Commission’s progress was halted by the monument corporation’s lawsuit filed in late 2020.
A lawsuit from the monument corporation took four years and three courts to resolve. Ultimately, the city won and the state’s top appeals court declined to hear arguments to overturn that.
“Litigation by the Columbus Monument Corporation created lengthy delays in undertaking and completing the comprehensive steps required by state and local law,” Loh said. “Nonetheless, we made substantial progress in addressing this longstanding community issue, including alignment on creating a heritage and education space at the site.”
Although Walsh made the decision to relocate the statue five years ago, community outreach leading to that moment
began in 2018
shortly before the mayor’s first Columbus Day in office. At that time, he announced that nonprofit Interfaith Works had agreed to host a series of community dialogue sessions to help inform how the city should approach the holiday and monument.
That effort led to Walsh establishing the Columbus Circle Action Committee, which was charged with giving the mayor recommendations. After it issued a non-committal report, he made the decision to pursue statue relocation and create a site that highlights “the contributions of others who have and are experiencing oppression, including Black and Brown Americans, Italians and other immigrants to America and, more recently, New Americans,” he said at the time.
Walsh singled out plans to include the Onondaga Nation in such a tribute. Despite the time that’s elapsed —and appears to remain — the nation’s citizens are committed to working through the city’s deliberative process, Heath said.
“In order to reach consensus and healing, things take time,“ he said. ”That’s the nature of how Onondagas make decisions."
Heath said the Columbus monument in Syracuse is particularly disturbing to Onondagas because of additional features below the towering statue itself. Columbus is standing above four heads of Plains Native Americans, and below that are plaques that include two scenes of Native Americans at Columbus’ feet.
“If that doesn’t portray an offensive colonial narrative, I’m not certain how you would do it,” Heath said.
That said, Heath emphasized that neither the Onondagas nor the Walsh administration have ever advocated for destroying the monument. Heath personally believes it could be housed at the OHA museum just off the circle.
“Let’s not say things that are not accurate,” he said. “Let’s face that this is a very contentious issue in our community, and that if we listen to each other, we probably can find a solution that will be much better for everybody.”
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com