By
Michelle Breidenbach | mbreidenbach@syracuse.com
Syracuse city and housing officials plan to ask New York state for $10 million to help replace part of a $30 million
federal grant that was canceled
by the Republican majority in Washington.
Syracuse Housing Authority Director Bill Simmons said the city is not giving up on the funds intended to pay for new streets, parks, bike paths, lighting, sidewalks and trees as public housing is rebuilt into the
new East Adams neighborhood.
The city won the competitive grant from a Federal Highway Administration program established by Congress in 2022 and signed into law by former President Joe Biden.
The money was intended to help rebuild the neighborhood next to the elevated
Interstate 81
in Syracuse.
Syracuse intended to use the grant to pay for new streets, parks, bike paths, lighting, sidewalks, trees and recreation areas in the neighborhood bordering what is now the elevated portion of Interstate 81.
The infrastructure would set the stage for a massive project to replace public housing with market-rate and affordable homes as part of a 10-year redevelopment plan.
Congress killed the entire $3.3 billion Neighborhood Access and Equity Program with a single sentence in President Donald Trump’s budget bill passed earlier this summer. The bill takes back any unspent grant money from the program.
Syracuse received only $300,000 of its $30 million grant because the city was required by federal law to first complete environmental reviews, according to Greg Loh, the city’s chief policy officer.
The study, required by the National Environmental Policy Act, is expected to take up to two years to complete, Loh said.
The state transportation department received $150 million from the program to use on the city’s behalf. That money appears to be safe because the state was further along in spending it.
Industry advocates for the program say they will try another strategy to keep the federal money flowing to cities like Syracuse.
In the meantime, the city intends to ask the state to fill the gap.
Syracuse councilors approved the grant application in July.
I-81 construction update: Part of Court Street to close through fall
DOT to cut trees in Syracuse as part of I-81 project
A key piece of I-81 project in Syracuse is now open for traffic
Syracuse seeks feedback on proposed changes to corridors under and near I-81
Syracuse asks residents to help reimagine toxic land around I-81 and I-690
Contact Michelle Breidenbach
| mbreidenbach@syracuse.com | 315-470-3186.
Michelle Breidenbach
Michelle Breidenbach covers immigration, Interstate 81, rebuilding the East Adams neighborhood, real estate assessment, property taxes, lead paint poisoning and other public affairs topics for Syracuse.com and...
more
mbreidenbach@syracuse.com