By
Chris Baker | cbaker@syracuse.com
Claire Harrison | Contributing Writer
Syracuse, N.Y. -- The chair of Syracuse’s Citizen Review Board abruptly resigned Monday morning, hours before city lawmakers were expected to vote on a plan exploring changes to the board’s bylaws.
In her resignation letter, chair Bryn Lovejoy-Grinnell accused city hall and common councilors of hindering the independence of the CRB.
“The City and the Council do not currently provide the CRB with the resources, support, and
independence
it requires to be successful, and I hope that that will improve in the future," she wrote (emphasis hers).
The resignation is the latest in a messy unraveling of the city’s civilian police watchdog agency, which has been plagued by
internal spats
,
personnel issues
and struggles for
legitimacy
and
power
for years.
The board’s former administrator, Ranette Releford, was
ousted
last fall following claims she created a hostile work environment and ran a shoddy operation that missed deadlines and let cases languish.
Lovejoy-Grinnell, a lawyer and former common councilor, reluctantly took the helm as board chair earlier this year. The board chair is a volunteer position.
In February, she outlined a plan to bring order to the chaos by putting in place new structures for the board. That included hiring a new administrator, the person tasked with overseeing investigations into complaints against police officers.
In her resignation letter, Lovejoy-Grinnell said she believes in the board’s mission, despite what she calls a fundamental dysfunction caused by interference from the council and city hall.
Councilor Chol Majok, who chairs the Common Council’s public safety committee, said he has not read Lovejoy-Grinnell’s resignation letter but disagreed with the notion that the council has interfered in CRB operations.
“I don’t think that’s true. Because what we have done as council is give CRB that autonomy to operate within that,” Majok said. “...I don’t know where the interpretation that we are inserting ourselves comes from. It makes no sense.”
Lovejoy-Grinnell said the police department has showed an unprecedented willingness to cooperate with the CRB. That’s not always been the case.
Lovejoy-Grinnell could not immediately be reached by phone or email Monday morning.
The council met Monday afternoon but did not vote on the proposed changes to the CRB. Majok is seeking to create a “Citizen’s Review Board Legislation Update Committee,” tasked with updating the CRB’s legislation between now and September, but the measure was held from voting. He previously introduced, then withdrew the legislation.
The nine-person committee would include the chief of police, a city lawyer and seven civilians. Majok said the point of the committee is to make sure the CRB is a “well-informed” and “inclusive” group that pulls in community members.
“CRB has been in a very tumultuous space, and as a council, it’s a delicate line to walk trying to not exert yourself too far in at the same time, you don’t want to be a bystander,” he said. “Trying to balance, that is where we are. That’s why we keep holding it.”
Majok said the challenge of moving forward with the CRB is there are many hands involved. He said the council wants to give the CRB independence, but it has to make changes when that independence is not working.
RECOMMENDED
Bryan Blair has big plans for Syracuse sports: ‘We want to wake this sleeping beast’
Mar. 19, 2026, 6:25 p.m.
Classic rock band retiring from performing after 54 years
Mar. 18, 2026, 6:39 p.m.
The timeline of creating the committee is still unclear, especially as the council will be occupied by the budget review process, Majok said. He said he’s not sure if it will end up moving forward or being “pulled back.”
“The point of putting it on is to show the intention that we mean well,” Majok said. “Although the logistics are not all in place, this is the direction we would like to go to now. The timing of it, I don’t know yet.”
A year ago, the council tried another avenue to establish more oversight over the CRB. Councilors approved a measure to have more say in the hiring and firing of the CRB’s administrator. Mayor Ben Walsh ultimately vetoed the measure.
Chris Baker
Chris Baker oversees public affairs and watchdog coverage for Syracuse.com and the Post-Standard. That includes coverage of politics, policy, tax spending, housing, I-81 and related issues.
He has been with...
more
cbaker@syracuse.com