By
Jon Moss | jmoss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Some key facts remain disputed nine years after a Syracuse police officer shot and killed a man at a Father’s Day barbecue that had devolved into chaos.
Was the man, Gary Porter, one of several people at the barbecue who were firing guns? Or was he an innocent bystander who happened to be nearby?
Did the officer who responded, Kelsey Francemone, properly identify herself and order the shooters to drop their weapons?
When Porter later ran away, did he turn toward Francemone with a gun in his hand? Or was he unarmed, with his back toward her, when she fatally shot him?
No gun was found at the scene, but does gunshot residue on Porter’s hand prove he fired a gun?
Eight jurors began hearing arguments late Monday afternoon in the federal building in downtown Syracuse. They will have to decide who they believe.
The trial in
the civil lawsuit
filed by Porter’s daughter, Tanajee Maddox, almost didn’t happen.
Syracuse city lawyers
had reached
an agreement to pay $825,000 to settle the lawsuit. But a vote by city lawmakers was one short of the two-thirds majority needed to borrow to pay for the settlement. Some common councilors said Francemone acted correctly and they weren’t convinced a settlement was warranted.
A grand jury convened by Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick
cleared Francemone
in August 2016 of criminal wrongdoing.
The shooting on June 19, 2016,
provoked
a strong community response and led to protests in front of police headquarters. Tensions were further elevated when police
ransacked a woman’s house during a raid
, but turned up no illegal drugs or weapons.
The events of that night are in some ways from a different era of policing and police accountability.
Video footage capturing some of what happened is from grainy surveillance cameras and the phones of some people who happened to be nearby. Syracuse police officers would not begin to get body cameras
until the following year
.
The state Attorney General’s Office quickly closed its investigation,
saying at the time
that it didn’t have the authority to continue looking into what happened. The state Legislature would later pass a law requiring the office to investigate any death that may have been caused by an action, or lack of an action, by law enforcement officers.
It is not in dispute how the events of that June night started.
A large Father’s Day celebration was happening at the James Geddes public housing complex on the city‘s Near West Side. Hundreds of people were there, and music blared from a DJ booth.
About an hour into her shift, and less than two years into her career on the force, Francemone responded at around 11:10 p.m. to a call for a “person down.” That call was determined to be unfounded.
Soon after arriving, however, Francemone heard gunfire. Officials would later say at least 37 shots were fired that day.
People at the barbecue began stampeding away from the shots, creating a chaotic scene. Francemone, who was by herself, ran toward the gunfire.
She would find three people shooting from near a car in a small parking lot off Tully Street on the southern side of the housing complex.
Jurors will hear competing testimony for the next few weeks about what happened next.
The forensic evidence in the case leaves room for interpretation. So, the lawyers for both sides moved quickly on Monday to discredit each other’s eyewitnesses.
Fred Lichtmacher, a New York City lawyer representing the Porter family, chided Francemone for turning up two witnesses who are now doing time in state prison for felonies.
One of the lawyers representing Francemone, John Powers, noted that the Porter family’s witnesses are all friends or relatives who might be biased toward Porter.
Both sides also started painting two vastly different portraits of Francemone.
Lichtmacher cast Francemone as a “deer in the headlights” who didn’t appropriately handle an emergency and has since crafted a “fiction” about what happened.
Lichtmacher said his witnesses will show that, among other things, Francemone had not properly identified herself as an officer and never saw Porter shooting a gun nor turn toward her with it.
Lichtmacher said it was unreasonable for her to fatally shoot Porter since he was unarmed. He noted again and again during opening arguments Monday that a gun was never recovered.
Lichtmacher also repeatedly said the lawsuit against Francemone is not a criticism of all police officers. Instead, he said, it is an attempt to single out an officer who “acted horribly.”
Powers, the lawyer hired by the city to represent the officer, talked her up, saying she was brave for running toward a hail of gunfire without any backup.
After firing off an initial few shots at the three shooters, Francemone’s gun jammed and she needed to swap out her magazine. Powers crouched down on the courtroom floor before the jurors, emulating how he said she quickly went to the ground to fix her service weapon.
Powers noted that Porter, who was right-handed, was found with so-called gunshot residue on his right hand.
The tiny particles are left behind after a person fires a gun. But Lichtmacher argued the residue could have been “transferred” from Francemone’s hand to Porter’s when she later attempted to handcuff him.
Powers said it wasn’t for lack of trying that police would never find a gun. People attending the Father’s Day event twice pounced on Francemone after she shot Porter, stealing items from her uniform and striking her with a glass bottle.
Powers said it took an hour for the police department to secure the scene and begin collecting evidence.
“If there was a gun on the ground,” he said, “it was long gone.”
Driver dies, passenger hospitalized after Central NY car crash
Woman charged with shooting OCC police officer with his own gun outside bar
Hackers breach NY-Alert system; state officials say ignore any message about transactions
Man sentenced to prison for taking pictures up women’s skirts in Syracuse and assaulting officer
Federal court rules Syracuse officer did not use excessive force during fatal Father’s Day shooting
Staff writer Jon Moss covers breaking news, crime and public safety. He can be reached at
jmoss@syracuse.com
or
@mossjon7
.
Jon Moss
Jon Moss is a breaking news reporter at Syracuse.com/The Post-Standard. He previously wrote for the Pittsburgh Union Progress and Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, focusing on politics and housing. He graduated in...
more
jmoss@syracuse.com
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.