By
Greta Stuckey | gstuckey@syracuse.com
Update:
Councilor Amir Gethers Monday withdrew a proposal to delay issuing fines for school zone speed and red-light camera violations. That means the city will start issuing tickets with fines on Monday, Nov. 3, ending a 60-day grace period for the new traffic camera program.
Original article
Syracuse, N.Y. — Two Syracuse common councilors plan to introduce legislation this week that would extend the city’s warning period for school zone speed and red-light camera violations.
Starting next Monday, Nov. 3, thousands of drivers who don’t slow down near city schools will start receiving tickets in the mail under
the city’s traffic safety program.
Each ticket carries a
$50 fine
for each speeding or red-light violation, with a $25 late fee for unpaid tickets. The tickets are sent to the owner of the vehicle.
Between Sept. 16 and Sept. 30, about 35,300 warnings were issued for speeding or running red lights, said Sol Muñoz, a spokesperson for the city. Roughly 34,700 of those were for speeding and 600 were for red-light violations.
If the city had enforced those tickets the fines would have added up to just over $1.7 million.
In the program’s first two weeks, about
60,000 drivers received warnings
.
The city launched the program at the start of the school year in September but gave drivers a 60-day grace period to encourage safer driving near schools without immediately issuing fines.
Councilors Amir Gethers and Rasheada Caldwell are proposing legislation Monday at a Common Council meeting to extend the grace period by two months, delaying fines until the New Year.
The councilors said in a letter to city officials that the extension would give drivers more time to adjust to the new program. It would also allow the city to expand public education efforts and improve signage before the fines begin, they said.
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week
Binge ‘Someone’s Hunting Us,’ a podcast about a serial killer and the women who took him down
Onondaga Community College briefly locked down; student found with paintball gun
Several departments battle large house fire in Cayuga County
An Upstate NY corrections officer claimed $70K in injuries, but surveillance cameras told a different story
Greta Stuckey
Greta Stuckey joined Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard in November 2024 as a crime and public safety reporter. She covers topics including crime, politics and the occasional human-interest story. Before joining...
more
gstuckey@syracuse.com