Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Syracuse asks court to replace current redeveloper of Skyline Apartments with receiver

by Matthew Benninger

Wed, April 2, 2025 at 2:41 PM
Updated Thu, April 3, 2025 at 2:30 PM
11
VIEW ALL PHOTOS
Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced Wednesday that the city is asking the New York State Supreme Court to replace the owner of the former Clear Investment Group with a receiver at the vacant Skyline Apartments. (March 6, 2024) (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)
7
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
SKYLINE APARTMENTS
CLEAR INVESTMENT GROUP
RECEIVER
COURT
MAYOR BEN WALSH
HOUSING SHORTAGE
CODE VIOLATIONS

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced Wednesday that the city is asking the New York State Supreme Court to replace the owner of the former Skyline Apartments, Clear Investment Group, with a receiver.

A complaint from the city said that Clear Investment Group has not made an effort to redevelop the 352-apartment building on James Street. The apartments had been the subject of deplorable conditions, the murder of a 93-year-old woman in 2021 and more. The mayor's office said Clear Investment Group has let the apartments fall into further disrepair.

Commissioner of Neighborhood & Business Development for the City of Syracuse Michael Collins said in a press conference Wednesday, "We’ve not only had no progress to it but we’ve had broken promises along the way. I can say that in some ways the building is in worse condition.”

Clear Investment Group has said in Summer 2024 that it was working to fix the building and get it up to code under the name "The Metropolitan."

The complaint stated that Clear Investment Group has failed to ensure proper fire alarms and fire suppression systems even after the building, which was inhabited by squatters, caught fire on March 5, 2024. The complaint takes concern with water services being shut off, jeopardizing the city's emergency crews and public, after a standpipe burst and flooded the building with millions of gallons of water.

“Clear has failed to deliver on its promise to return this important property to use as workforce housing," said Mayor Walsh. "Despite consistent prodding from the city, the property is still boarded up with no evidence of interior or exterior progress. As our community faces a severe housing shortage, we will not tolerate Clear’s failure to act and have taken the steps within our authority to stop the further decline of the property.”

The complaint also asks the court to compel correction of all outstanding code violations, impose over $355,000 in fines accrued for outstanding violations and require Clear to deposit $2 million dollars with the receiver to cover necessary repairs and ongoing maintenance. When Clear Investment took over they were promising 4.5 million dollars in upgrades to the Skyline Apartments.

Deputy Mayor at City of Syracuse Sharon Owens told us, "We have families living in hotels who need apartments and here we have this huge building with over 350 units in it that needs to be put back on the market and back into operational capacity.”

Click here to view the PDF file




READ THE COMMENTS (7)

This is a developing story.
















  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
U.S. Neurologists Call This Drink "Bottled Cognitive Decline" — Do You Drink It ?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
Fly La Compagnie: Business Travel, Reimagined
La Compagnie
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Fulton Mayor says water and sewer employees are aiding DPW with snow removal
What is a deed of reconveyance, and how does it work?
Oswego County man pleads guilty to insurance fraud totaling over $10,000
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.