How ICE’s mostly unseen campaign in Syracuse breeds fear and resistance - syracuse.com
'Is this the land of the free?'
How ICE’s mostly unseen campaign in Syracuse breeds fear and resistance
Updated: Dec. 07, 2025, 1:17 p.m.
|
Published: Dec. 01, 2025, 6:00 a.m.
Miriam Andres, cousin of detained Upstate Medical Hospital worker and Cuban immigrant Alex Gonzalez spoke to demonstrators and activists gathered at the Syracuse Federal Building Monday, November 10, 2025 to protest the arrest of Alex Gonzalez and Yan Vasquez when they went to an immigration hearing.
N. Scott Trimble | strimble@syracuse.com
By
Michelle Breidenbach | mbreidenbach@syracuse.com
Two teens fled Turkish Kurdistan on their own, in search of a country where they could practice religion and speech without fear.
They settled in the Syracuse suburbs and leaned on each other for support.
The two kept U.S. Customs and Immigrations officers up to date on their home addresses, their jobs and their classes at Onondaga Community College.
On Oct. 6, Ardil Zilan drove Delil Alptekin to ICE headquarters in Mattydale and waited in the car while his friend made his usual three-month check-in. Alptekin’s texts suddenly stopped. He never came out.
Instead, an ICE officer walked out to the car and said they were sending Alptekin to a detention center near Buffalo.
Delil Alptekin, a student at Onondaga Community College, was detained by ICE in October 2025. He is from Turkey.
Provided photo
Zilan had questions. What could possibly have changed in three months?
“I was shocked. I was trying to stay calm, but it’s not easy,” he said.
Zilan started to cry, alone now in his car in a suburban American office park.
“What is going on with this?” he thought. “Is this the land of the free that we came to to seek safety and freedom?”
The same kind of quiet arrests are happening every week at ICE appointments and in houses, farms and neighborhoods all over Onondaga County. ICE does not answer questions about arrests. So far this year, it appears, dozens of people from Onondaga County have been detained.
Gone are the owners of
two Chinese restaurants
. A farm worker in Otisco.
Roofers
on their way to a Mexican restaurant.
A married couple from Cuba
who work as a janitor and supervisor at SUNY Upstate hospital. Another
hospital janitor
from Guinea, arrested while walking in Hawley Green, where he lived.
In November, a French man who overstayed his visa
fled to Canada
with an army of activists by his side. ICE officers in unmarked cars followed the man and his husband from their home in Liverpool to the Syracuse store where they sell their handmade soaps.
Watch
This is what President Donald Trump’s aggressive immigration enforcement looks like in Onondaga County, according to public records and syracuse.com interviews with more than 20 immigrants, activists and lawyers:
ICE is frequently detaining people who are voluntarily in the immigration system. These immigrants are not hiding. People at various stages in the asylum process are detained when they show up for hearings that, for months and years, were routine.
The people ICE is arresting are not the worst of the worst. Few people detained in Onondaga County had a crime other than an immigration violation, data shows.
An army of advocates has mobilized to support Syracuse-area immigrants. Groups hold “know your rights” workshops. Volunteers answer calls on a hotline and others staff rapid response teams. Advocates, elected officials and neighbors formed a human chain to help the French citizen escape.
Undocumented immigrants are making difficult decisions as they watch what is happening in their community and the country. Some have decided it is better to self-deport than to risk a lengthy detention in a hostile and unpredictable U.S. immigration system. Others are making arrangements for someone to take care of their children left behind if they are suddenly swept away.
Across the country, Trump’s Homeland Security officers are on a mission to arrest and deport non-citizens who crossed the U.S. border without permission. Video footage in places like Chicago and Los Angeles shows agents bashing in car windows and rappelling from helicopters onto apartment buildings.
In Onondaga County, ICE arrests look different. They happen one at a time and so quietly that they sometimes escape the attention of allies ready to respond. There are few photos or videos.
Many people have already been sent home to China, Laos, Uzbekistan, Colombia, Ecuador, India, Guatemala, Jamaica, Cuba and Venezuela, records show.
Yovani Humberto Marroquin-Ramirez, center, and his children. In 2024 Marroquin-Ramirez and three other roofers were taken by ICE on North Salina Street in Syracuse. He came to the U.S. from Guatemala to provide for his parents.
Provided photo
Alptekin, the OCC student, was surrounded in a Batavia detention center by people from many countries who said they were at different stages of seeking legal status. They all told him they had no criminal record, he told his friend.
The U.S. government used to allow immigrants some freedom while they sought green cards and citizenship. The government asked immigrants to simply check in, sometimes by phone. Now, that is not enough.
The government has little tolerance for people to live and work on supervised parole while they seek a green card or citizenship, lawyers say.
In October, the federal government offered Alptekin $1,000 and a plane ticket back to Turkey. He decided to take it, his friend said. In mid-November, he was still in Batavia, awaiting deportation.
“I will try to come back and get my education and support my community,” Zilan said his friend told him.
Kathy Elbadawi was Alptekin’s English teacher at OCC. She teaches students who are learning English as a new language.
She said a few students have disappeared from her class since August. She suspects they have self-deported.
She said the rules seem impossible to follow for people who are trying hard to stay in line. And the threat of detention and deportation is too much.
“They just say ‘I have to go back to my country.’ They don’t want to live in fear of being deported,” she said. “The students are very quiet about it.”
Danger in a routine hearing
Before this year, the immigration lawyers at the non-profit Hiscock Legal Aid helped clients with routine matters such as green cards, mixed citizenship marriages, asylum hearings and naturalization ceremonies.
It was rewarding. Almost nothing was urgent. Clients could check in with the federal government over the phone or online if they needed to change an address, said Ben Vernon, who supervises a staff of 20 lawyers and a load of nearly 900 clients.
Benjamin Vernon, supervising attorney for Hiscock Legal Aid.
Dennis Nett | dnett@syracuse.com
Now, the federal government asks undocumented residents to come to appointments with ICE agents in person. Lawyers explain the new risks, he said.
“We can’t guarantee by any means that there won’t be some sort of enforcement action taken against them while this application is pending,” Vernon said.
Lawyers also started coming along, he said.
The ICE headquarters for Central New York is in Mattydale, near the airport. It looks like an ordinary office building, but officers walk the perimeter of the parking lot and a fence hides a fleet of vehicles. Google maps identifies the building as offices for the Federal Aviation Administration, not ICE.
ICE headquarters in Mattydale, N.Y.
Michelle Breidenbach | mbreidenbach@syracuse.com
At first, ICE agents allowed advocates and lawyers to come into the office with clients. Now, advocates must wait in the parking lot. Lawyers don’t always make it past the lobby.
Lawyers and advocates describe the meetings as tedious, confusing and undignified.
Everyone gets the same 9 a.m. appointment time, then has to wait in line. Sometimes, when it’s finally their turn, officers seem unsure why the clients came, advocates said.
Many people bring their young children to appointments, to make sure they are not split up.
One advocate brought a Guatemalan woman and her baby, a U.S. citizen, to a recent appointment. An officer came out with the baby’s bottle of milk. It was not allowed inside, the agent said.
Most people who visit are on supervised release or parole. Some, like Alptekin, crossed the border and immediately sought asylum. While they wait for more permanent permission to live in the U.S., they have to come in person to update ICE agents.
More and more often, lawyers and advocates say, their clients are detained at these meetings.
“They’re doing a lot more check-ins and detaining a lot more people at those check-ins, not for violations of the release, but for basically saying, we could have had you in detention the whole time,” Vernon said. “So now we’re putting you in detention.”
Watch
In late October, Alcibiades Lazaro Ramirez Gonzalez and Yannier Vazquez Hidalgo
went together
to see ICE agents in Mattydale. The two are a married couple from North Syracuse. They have asked the U.S. government for asylum from Cuba, where gay marriage is not easily accepted.
They thought the visit would be their last until a judge would give them a final blessing to live in the country.
Instead, agents detained the men and sent them to a detention center. A co-worker retrieved their empty car.
Their arrests got an unusual amount of attention because they were state workers. They work at SUNY Upstate Medical Center, one as a janitor and one as a supervisor.
Their unions, the Civil Service Employees Association and United University Professions, immediately put out news releases. Gov. Kathy Hochul met with their anxious family members. Advocates are holding vigils every Monday night at Clinton Square.
They are still detained in Batavia.
Gov. Kathy Hochul met with the families of Yannier Vazquez Hidalgo and Alcibiades Lazaro Ramirez Gonzalez - two men who were detained by ICE in Central New York.
Provided photo
Most people are 