Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

47°

Syracuse partners with exalt to support at-risk youth: What we know now

by Nicole La Fiandra

Thu, November 13, 2025 at 5:38 AM
The program hopes to get youth involved in the criminal justice system back on the right track. (Photo by CNY Central)

1
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
EXALT
AT-RISK YOUTH
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INTERNSHIPS
FUNDING
EDUCATION
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

The Syracuse Common Council approved funding for the exalt program this week. The initiative is aimed at providing alternatives to incarceration for the city's youth. The program, which has been successful in New York City, focuses on inspiring and supporting young people involved with the criminal justice system by connecting them with internships and professional opportunities.

Councilor Chol Majok expressed his hopes for the program in a Common Council Meeting, "My hope as the chair of this committee, is that exalt will not be just another program that the federal government and state government will fund to a city, and then it just goes with no results. My hope is that exalt coming into the City of Syracuse will make a difference in the lives of the citizens of our city."

The initiative is backed by $1.5 million from the New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services and an additional funds from the cannabis reinvestment program. The non-profit's CEO, Dr. Gisele Castro, emphasized the program's goals, saying, "In close collaboration with the over 80 local stakeholders we have met over the last year, we’re not only ensuring young people avoid criminal justice involvement, but we’re strengthening Syracuse’s workforce and the local economy."

exalt is honored to partner with the City of Syracuse to bring our proven, one-of-a-kind intervention model to justice-impacted teenagers. Our work centers on three key areas: Educational Advancement, Criminal Justice Avoidance, and Employability. In close collaboration with the over 80 local stakeholders we have met over the last year, we’re not only ensuring young people avoid criminal justice involvement, but we’re strengthening Syracuse’s workforce and the local economy. We are grateful to Mayor Elect Owens and Council Member Majok for investing in a program that both enhances public safety and transforms young lives.

The non-profit targets youth aged 15 to 19, offering structured classes, individualized support, and paid internships to help them avoid further involvement with the criminal justice system. Internships pay $18-$20 an hour after the six-week mark. Here is the criteria:

Syracuse partners with exalt to support at-risk youth: What we know now

- exalt ONLY serves court-involved youth.

- Youth must be enrolled in school or an educational program or be willing to enroll in order to participate (in which case exalt will assist with this process).

- Youth may not have a HS diploma already.

- exalt does not serve youth who have received or are receiving any employment/job readiness preparation/programs.

- Candidate must have a Social Security Number.

READ THE COMMENTS (1)

The referral and enrollment form for Syracuse is already live. To start the program, officials with the non-profit will lead 10 students through the "cycle," then add Syracuse staffing and more students as the program matures.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
10 Things I Wish People Knew About Lupus
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Drone drops knives, drugs and cell phone inside fence at Marcy Correctional Facility
Victim shot in parking lot outside of Destiny USA dies
Breathalyzer company under security breach; cars unable to move
Contractor charged for not completing work he was paid to do
Chuck Norris passes away at age 86
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.