By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Bricks from a 100-foot-tall smokestack at a historic former Syracuse train station are falling and landing just feet from a public street.
The city on Tuesday declared the 89-year-old structure at the former New York Central Railroad building unsafe and ordered its demolition following an inquiry from syracuse.com | The Post-Standard about the falling bricks.
The bricks have been detaching from the top of the smokestack and shattering in a small parking area next to Burnet Avenue since at least April, when the city last issued a warning to the owner.
This week, the city issued a harsher notice.
The chimney has become “a major safety threat to motorists and the public at large,“ Ryan Shiel, director of the city’s Division of Code Enforcement, said in a letter to the building’s owner, Tom Hornstein, on Tuesday. ”Accordingly, the city now seeks to demolish the chimney.”
The smokestack stands next to a building at the southeast corner of Burnet Avenue and Catherine Street used as a mail processing facility by the railroad from 1936 to 1962. The smokestack was part of the building’s coal-burning heating system.
The complex, currently vacant, is famous for its
six plaster human figures
on the old train station’s single surviving passenger platform -- ghost figures waiting for a train that will never come. Thousands of motorists pass the scene daily on Interstate 690, which replaced the railroad tracks in the early 1960s.
The building, along with the station’s former passenger terminal facing Erie Boulevard East, were placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2009.
Bricks have been falling off this smokestack at the historic former New York Central Railroad station at 400 Burnet Ave. in Syracuse. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
The clash over the smokestack is the latest in a
long-running dispute
between the city and Hornstein, a developer who has owned the former railroad building since 2020.
Last fall, the city sued the businessman over what it said were numerous building code violations, including operating an antiques gallery at the site without a permit and allowing an illegal nightclub to operate on the premises. Hornstein later moved his
antiques gallery
to the city’s Westside and has put the building up for sale.
When it comes to the falling bricks, Hornstein blames nearby construction activity by the state Department of Transportation for the problem. The department disputes that.
Currently, the DOT is building an on-ramp from Burnet Avenue to I-690 as part of its
Interstate 81
reconstruction project. The ramp is being constructed adjacent to the former train station.
Hornstein said he believes vibrations caused by the DOT’s earth moving and other equipment caused the bricks to fall and that the DOT should pay for the smokestack’s demolition or repair.
In a statement to syracuse.com provided by spokesperson TeNesha Murphy, the DOT said the smokestack’s deterioration was caused by insufficient maintenance and was unrelated to the department’s construction activities.
“Vibration monitors installed in the area as part of the Interstate 81 Viaduct Project indicate that ground movement has been at or below expected values,” the department said.
The New York State Department of Transportation is building an onramp from Burnet Avenue to Interstate 690 adjacent to the former New York Central Railroad's mail processing center facility. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Hornstein estimated the structure’s demolition would cost around $60,000, but he said he believes it could be repaired rather than taken down.
“I don’t want it to come down,” he said. “I had a structural engineer tell me just the top needs to be repointed.”
Greg Loh, Syracuse’s chief policy officer, said the city considers Hornstein, as owner of the property, to be responsible for the condition of the structure.
A city crew installed concrete barriers next to the property on Tuesday to keep motorists and pedestrians away.
Loh said the city will seek a court order requiring the structure’s demolition if Hornstein does not comply with the city’s order.
If he still does not comply, the city will employ a contractor to demolish it and send the bill to Hornstein, along with a 15% surcharge, according to the citation issued by the codes office on Tuesday.
Tuesday’s inspection was not the first time city code enforcement officers have inspected the chimney for falling bricks. They first looked it over in April and ordered Hornstein to repair it.
Loh said the code enforcement office could not substantiate during the April inspection when the bricks had fallen and that “nothing appeared to be an imminent threat at the time.” He said Hornstein ignored the April order and is now facing a $150 fine as a result.
The city decided to conduct a second inspection after being alerted to the falling bricks by syracuse.com | The Post-Standard and determined it has become “a major safety threat,” he said.
‘We felt alone, helpless’: Van Duyn settlement promises more oversight of troubled nursing home
Central NY woman arrested after cameras catch her abandoning dog at shelter after hours
Central New York mother facing ‘rarely used charge’ after 11-year-old son’s crime spree
Family-owned Syracuse area hobby store is saying goodbye after a 50-year run
Central Library in downtown Syracuse reopens after 3-week air conditioning outage
Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact Rick Moriarty at
rmoriarty@syracuse.com
or (315) 470-3148.
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.