Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

DPW budget hearing held to discuss where things stand with water in Syracuse

by Gary Robinson Jr. 

Wed, April 23, 2025 at 10:37 PM
Updated Wed, April 23, 2025 at 10:37 PM
00:01
00:00

he Syracuse Department of water went before the common council for a budget hearing Wednesday,

Last year the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC) reviewed results from city tests and concluded that Syracuse had some of the worst lead levels in drinking water in the country and was quote “facing a drinking water safety crisis” affecting mostly black children in poor communities.

4
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
WATER
LEAD
BUDGET
CRISIS
PRESSURE
COMMUNITY
E.P.A.

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The Syracuse Department of water went before the common council for a budget hearing Wednesday,

Last year the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC) reviewed results from city tests and concluded that Syracuse had some of the worst lead levels in drinking water in the country and was quote “facing a drinking water safety crisis” affecting mostly black children in poor communities.

The City of Syracuse claims employee error caused the high-test results ... the E.P.A. is investigating.

Lead isn't the only problem the department's had.

Low water pressure and aging pipes ... has caused a spike in water main breaks and issues for some properties to get water pressure.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

On Wednesday we learned the department is facing a staffing crisis as well ... down 16 employees. Last year's problems led to a lack of trust in the community with the water they drink. Community leaders and neighbors in Syracuse are still looking for answers on where things stand.

There have been ongoing problems of low water pressure in the city for some time now with commissioner of the Syracuse department of water Robert Brandt saying they still get calls now and then, but things have improved.

Commissioner of the Department of Water Robert Brandt said, “Now water has climbed. I would say in the last three weeks of repairs we’re bringing in like 1.8 million gallons a day more than we were before repairs.”

Reports of high lead levels last year left community leaders disgruntled with how the city handled the lead pipes issue saying that the threat was not being properly addressed.

Syracuse City Council Member Chol Majok said, “The lead issue in the city is a leadership problem and it needs to be approached from a larger lense than just the department dealing with it. It is an issue. A lot of our kids get poisoned by lead. It’s a serious matter.

Brandt believes he and his team are taking the right steps to resolve the current issue and be within E.P.A. regulations.

"We are being very proactive. We are already working on that throughout neighborhoods in the city and this year we are getting ready to kick off a larger scale and we’re looking to change 2,900 lead services within the fiscal year and that’s going to be a big program for the City of Syracuse.

Councilor Majok respects the efforts done by the water department but is not yet satisfied with the lead pipe issue.

“No, I'm not satisfied. We will never be satisfied until we know that the issues of our residents are addressed and the quality of life around drinking water and safety of water is at a level where it is safe,” said Majok.

READ THE COMMENTS (4)

Brandt says that over 6,000 water filters were distributed to neighbors to mitigate exposure to potential lead poisoning, but Brandt and council members say this is just a band aid now and when the pipes get replaced soon is when they will be fully satisfied.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.