By
Emalyn Muzzy
At one of his final school board meetings, Anthony “TD” Davis wiped away tears as Common Councilor Patrona Jones-Rowser said she never would have graduated high school without him.
Jones-Rowser, a lifelong Syracusan, said during a turbulent time of her life Davis became a mentor to her and offered help when she needed it. Decades later, Davis is still involved in her life.
“I can’t be more blessed to have you a part of my life,” Jones-Rowser told Davis.
The board meeting was filled with heartfelt thanks from more than a dozen people, including Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh, U.S. Rep. John Mannion, New York State Senator Rachel May, common council members and school board members.
In August, Davis announced he would retire as superintendent on Oct. 31 after three years in the job. Deputy Superintendent Pamela Odom will take over,
syracuse.com reported.
Davis started as a teaching assistant
in the city school district in 1986 and worked his way up. He spent almost 20 years working for the Liverpool School District before coming back to SCSD as assistant superintendent of secondary schools in 2016.
He retired in 2019 but returned three years later as interim superintendent before taking over full time less than a year later.
RECOMMENDED
Salt City Athletic Conference Metro girls basketball all-stars announced for 2025-26
Mar. 22, 2026, 10:25 a.m.
Former Syracuse gang leader turned youth counselor admits to huge bail bond scheme
Mar. 17, 2026, 6:38 p.m.
During the meeting, speakers praised Davis for opening the
STEAM high school
, making sure students living in food deserts got meals and creating deep connections throughout Syracuse.
“I want everybody to understand that, like, this man right here is more than just a superintendent. He was a brother. He was a father,” said Common Councilor Rasheada Caldwell. “He showed up for our kids and I really, really appreciate that our kids can see someone like them.”
Emalyn Muzzy covers schools and higher education for syracuse.com | The Post-Standard. Reach her at
emuzzy@syracuse.com
.