By
Emalyn Muzzy | emuzzy@syracuse.com
While Syracuse City School District holds steady with the worst standardized test scores in the county, students have improved in recent years.
SCSD ranked among the bottom in New York State, coming in at 647th out of 658 school districts for ELA. It dropped three spots from
644th place in 2024.
The test scores for third through eighth graders show 24% of students scored proficient at English Language Arts and 18% were proficient at math, according to newly released New York State Education Department data.
Syracuse students did better than Rochester city students in ELA, where 19% scored proficient. Buffalo had a slightly higher percentage of students proficient at ELA at 28%.
Despite low proficiency scores, SCSD has improved in recent years.
The share of students proficient in math has more than doubled since 2022, increasing from 8% to 18%, data shows.
Since last year, SCSD math proficiency improved by 2 percentage points and ELA by 4 percentage points. Third graders specifically scored much higher this year, increasing math and ELA proficiency by 8 percentage points each.
“It’s important that as we celebrate the proficiency rates and seeing where we are in relation to the state, that we acknowledge that we have some room to grow and that we are on our way to doing that,” said Tara Jennings, the SCSD chief information officer, at a November Board of Education meeting.
RECOMMENDED
NY rejects Billue’s plea to stay on Syracuse school board amid appeal. What now?
Mar. 20, 2026, 7:01 a.m.
CBA leader: Athletics should teach kids to face difficulty, not avoid it (Guest Opinion by Matthew Keough)
Mar. 20, 2026, 8:30 a.m.
It’s important to note that test scores
are not a perfect measure
for student growth. Students who are learning English as a new language or require extra time accommodations may struggle to take a standardized test.
School districts sometimes put too much weight on state test scores, as they are one of few publicly shared assessments. Teacher assessments, in-class assignments and daily quizzes are more crucial and informative than a single test.
Emalyn Muzzy
Emalyn Muzzy is a Southeast Minnesota native who studied journalism and Spanish at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities. She previously interned at the Stevens Point Journal in Stevens Point, Wisconsin...
more
emuzzy@syracuse.com