Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Syracuse Councilors Hogan and Majok oppose proposed tax hike amid reserve surplus

by Dale Ostrander

Thu, April 10, 2025 at 6:44 PM
00:01
00:00
Despite the city's reserve fund doubling to $120 million since Mayor Walsh took office, he insists on the necessity of the tax increase. (Photo by CNY Central)
6
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
TAX HIKE
BUDGET
COUNCILORS
RESERVE SURPLUS
MAYOR WALSH
PROPERTY TAXES
FINANCIAL RESERVES

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh has proposed a $348.4 million budget for 2026, which includes a 2% increase in both property taxes and water bills.

Many of the common councilors just received the information on the proposed budget on Thursday. In turn, they wanted time to look at what was in it before they shared their opinions.

This proposal has sparked concern among some Syracuse Common Councilors, who argue that the tax hike is excessive given the city's current financial reserves.

Councilors Pat Hogan, Chol Majok and Marty Nave agree that a 2% tax rate increase is not in the best interest of neighbors at this time

"I'm not in favor of a tax hike," said Councilor Hogan. "It's especially now in the tenure of the time, it's with an unsettled economy."

Scope of code violations take the forefront of Nob Hill civil case

Councilor Majok echoed this sentiment, stating, "There's also a thin line that needs to be walked in terms of taxes on people. You know, assessment is going up, raising 2% more. It's just it's too much: Too much for people."

Despite the city's reserve fund doubling to $120 million since Mayor Walsh took office, he insists on the necessity of the tax increase.

"As evidenced by the budget that I proposed, we don't have a balanced budget right now. So that is something that will be a work in progress," said Walsh.

The city's auditors have noted that Syracuse's unassigned fund balance has grown significantly, suggesting that the city has more funds than necessary.

Greg Evans, an outside auditor hired by the city, said the move is typically unheard of.

"It is sort of unprecedented in governments to earn this much money because you are very limited in what you can invest in," said Evans. "Somewhere around 45 to 50% of your annual expenditure would like to see you more in the 15 to 20% range."

READ THE COMMENTS (6)

Councilors Majok and Hogan acknowledge that budgets naturally increase over time but emphasize the importance of listening to constituents and maintaining fiscal responsibility.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
U.S. Neurologists Call This Drink "Bottled Cognitive Decline" — Do You Drink It ?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
Sciatica Is Not from a Slipped Disc. Meet the Real Enemy of Sciatica (Stop Doing This)
Smoothspine
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Oswego County man pleads guilty to insurance fraud totaling over $10,000
The Fed didn’t cut interest rates. Here are 5 things to watch next.
Fulton Mayor says water and sewer employees are aiding DPW with snow removal
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.