By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – The top executive at one of the nation’s largest banks sees the Syracuse area turning into a hotbed of population and job growth when
Micron Technology
builds its massive computer chip factory in Clay.
Chris Gorman, chairman and CEO of Cleveland-based KeyBank, told syracuse.com | The Post-Standard on Tuesday that growth driven by Micron and spin-off developments will make the Syracuse area one of the fastest growing markets in the bank’s nation-wide territory.
“We’re always looking at demographics and where there’s actually growth,” Gorman said during a visit to KeyBank’s regional headquarters in Syracuse as part of the bank’s bicentennial celebration.
“And in the past, you would have heard us talking about really continuing to invest out west because that’s where there was the greatest amount of in-migration. But this market, with all of the in-migration, will be growing as fast as any place in the country. And I’ve looked at all the stats. That’s Texas and other places included.”
Micron plans to break ground this fall on a huge semiconductor factory it says will cost up to $100 billion to build over 20 years and create 9,000 Micron jobs and more than 40,000 additional jobs at supply chain and other companies drawn to the area.
The company says its workers will earn on average more than $100,000 a year.
Gorman said that kind of investment and the associated developments it will attract will have long-lasting impacts on the Syracuse area.
“There’s a lot of dollars being spent,” he said. “These are high-paying jobs, and these are jobs that are going to have a lot of durability. Even the construction will have a great duration because the construction here will be going on decades, plural.”
Micron is planning to build a large semiconductor plant on Route 31 in Clay. The company says the plant will employ up to 9,000 people and cost up to $100 billion to build. Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Planners say the project could bring more than 50,000 new residents to Onondaga County, a 10% increase that would reverse years of stagnant population growth.
Gorman said that kind of people growth will bring all sorts of economic activity beyond the high-tech manufacturing that will be happening in Clay.
“They’re all going to be out spending money, whether it’s, as I was telling our team, whether it’s Friday night buying a pizza or getting a haircut or anything else,” said Gorman, whose bank is one of the nation’s largest bank-based financial service companies, with $185 billion in assets and 1,000 branches in 15 states.
He predicts a surge in demand for new housing in the area to accommodate the population growth.
Specifically, he sees a big need for new multifamily housing (apartment).
“I just feel that, anytime you’re going to have a huge push for housing in a relatively short time, the fastest way to convert open space to places for people to live is multifamily,” he said. “That’s not at the exclusion of single-family housing. Obviously, a lot of these people will come into Syracuse and they’ll settle here.”
And while ramping up construction to meet the need for new housing will be a challenge, Gorman thinks the region is up to the task.
“You have plenty of space, so the opportunity to build multifamily, to build affordable housing, to build workforce housing, I think it’s a huge opportunity,” he said. “So I am certain developers will find it extremely attractive to come in and make investments.”
KeyBank's regional headquarters at 201 S. Warren St. in Syracuse. With $185 billion in assets and 1,000 branches in 15 states, KeyBank is one of the nation's largest bank-based financial services companies. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Onondaga County’s top waste management official is retiring, search starts for replacement
45 workers laid off as rival acquires Central New York blood lab
Taste of Syracuse, Syracuse Nationals will be held this year after lawsuit with lender settled
Industry veteran who helped create Central NY drone corridor to lead NUAIR
Got deep pockets and a knack for building? Onondaga County has a dead mall to sell you
Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact Rick Moriarty at
rmoriarty@syracuse.com
or (315) 470-3148.
Rick Moriarty
I report on business news and consumer issues for The Post-Standard and syracuse.com. I can be reached at (315) 470-3148.
rmoriarty@syracuse.com