Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Landowner's absence fuels frustration at town meeting after convent condemnation

by Gary Robinson Jr.

Wed, April 2, 2025 at 1:09 AM
Updated Wed, April 2, 2025 at 7:33 AM
City leaders from the fire department, common council, and department of water met with neighbors to discuss the future---and answer questions about why the historic building can’t be saved.
6
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
LANDOWNERS
FRUSTRATION
HISTORIC
BUILDING
FIRE
NEIGHBORS
PROPERTY
CITY

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — City leaders from the fire department, common council, and department of water met with neighbors to discuss the future---and answer questions about why the historic building can’t be saved.

Late last week, the city announced the historic Motherhouse will be torn down after a massive fire ravaged the building.

The building was once a home for nuns and has been vacant for decades.

For years city officials and neighbors have expressed frustration with the owner of the property, Mark Congel, who neighbors accuse of mishandling the property.

Many neighbors saying they are angry with how a fixture in their neighborhood was left to rot for decades.

Tuesday the fire chief said the cause of the fire has not been identified yet.

Neighbors expressing frustration after the city announced a beloved historic building standing more than 100 years – will be torn down after a fire severely damaged the structure March 21.

One neighbor at the meeting said, “Is there a plan in place to prevent the vagrants and squatters from going in there.”

Many say the fire could have been prevented with care and upkeep.

Neighbors tell us they have been voiced complaints for years about property neglect, with code of enforcement issuing 15 violations against the owner.

Another neighbor added, “Unless we put the resources up there. We’ll be at the expense of another fire.”

Syracuse common councilor Marty Nave says the convent wasn’t just a building he walked past everyday but was a part of his life – engrained in his memory as a staple in the northside community – saying he believes a portion of that building could be saved.

Marty Nave: “I see no reason why those bricks need to be thrown into a dumpster. Artifacts and maybe stain glass windows. Artifacts are still in there. “

According to the city, the Division of Code enforcement made the decision to tear the property down – with no other outside consultants or experts brought in to weigh in.

“We should have outside opinion. In fact, I believe meeting with many nuns I believe their opinion should be heard. Their opinion should be heard - our constituents that live in the area, they should be heard,” said Nave.

The city is still determining what is salvageable from the building as multiple people have told us the wood inside the building is extremely old and lavish and when the nuns were moving from the convent to the new sisters of St. Francis campus in Salina people were looking to buy that wood. Reporting in studio I’m Gary Robinson Jr.

Neighbors Tuesday say they want their local government to do a better job holding property owners accountable.

The city is still determining whether any of the lavish wood inside is salvageable.

READ THE COMMENTS (6)

And leaders are still hopeful new developments will happen here – senior apartments are the plan.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
Sciatica Is Not from a Slipped Disc. Meet the Real Enemy of Sciatica (Stop Doing This)
Smoothspine
|
SPONSORED
U.S. Neurologists Call This Drink "Bottled Cognitive Decline" — Do You Drink It ?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Oswego County man pleads guilty to insurance fraud totaling over $10,000
What is a deed of reconveyance, and how does it work?
Buffalo Tops racist-shooting trial stays in Western NY after judge rejects move to NYC
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.