Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

38°

'Nothing short of chaos': Police Union leader defends vague Armory Square Facebook post

by Mary Kielar

Tue, July 15, 2025 at 2:44 PM
Updated Tue, July 15, 2025 at 5:23 PM
The I-Team sat down with Syracuse PBA President Joe Moran on Tuesday. (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)

21
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
POLICE
ARMORY SQUARE
ARRESTS
GUNS
SYRACUSE
COMMUNITY
CHAOTIC
LOITERING

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse Police Benevolent Association President Joe Moran said the reason for his Facebook post on Sunday evening about 40 arrests and five guns recovered Friday and Saturday night in Armory Square was about being transparent.

President Moran told the I-Team on Tuesday that the reason for the post was to make the community aware of what he deemed criminal behavior in the area.

"I did not believe that the Syracuse Police Department, nor the representatives from city hall were going to accurately portray or even describe what's been occurring in the downtown Armory Square detail on Fridays and Saturday nights," said Moran. "That was the point of the post. I wanted the community to be aware of what is actually occurring down there."

The post, written by Moran, referred to downtown Syracuse and the Armory Square arts and entertainment district as "chaotic." But it didn't explain what the arrests were for or elaborate on where the guns were found on Friday and Saturday nights.

The I-Team started asking questions on Monday after reading the post. While Moran was not available because he was running a golf tournament, CNY Central got context and perspective from the Chief of Police and Deputy Mayor of Syracuse.

'Nothing short of chaos': Police Union leader defends vague Armory Square Facebook post

Both said they worked together after neighbors came to them with concerns.

"The arrests were referring to open containers or loitering. There are appearance tickets for violations," Chief Joe Cecile.

He added that this was part of a proactive policing effort for this past weekend and this coming weekend. Specifically, officers are being tasked with quelling a late-night problem with people who loiter and linger downtown after the bars close.

Moran said it's not an early morning issue.

"I think every effort needs to be made to enjoy the downtown establishments," Moran said. "The bars and the restaurants. If you're there after 10 p.m., at night, you're rolling the dice,"

He described his members being attacked, aggressively approached and claimed one person hit officers with a liquor bottle while they were trying to make an arrest.

"That is chaotic. That is dangerous," he said.

Still, Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens said community leaders need to watch what they say, referring to the post using the word "gangbanger" in it.

"That's what the post should've been about. Your membership did what we asked them to do in response to a neighborhood," said Deputy Mayor Owens. "End of story,"

READ THE COMMENTS (21)

Moran told the I-Team, "There are documented gang members and gangbangers infiltrating the Armory Square downtown area. That's the truth. And if people are offended by it, they can get a tissue."

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.