Dr. Barry B. Perlman, a retired psychiatrist, is a past president of the New York State Psychiatric Association and past chair of the New York State Mental Health Services Council. He also served as a member of the state Hospital Review and Planning Council. “Rearview: A Psychiatrist Reflects on Practice and Advocacy In a Time of Healthcare System Change,” his memoir, was published in 2021. Perlman lives in New York.

Among the most contentious proposals in Gov. Kathy Hochul’s 2025 Executive Budget is the effort to improve mental healthcare and the safety of New York communities by updating Kendra’s Law. It is instructive to review the stances of various advocacy and civil liberties organizations regarding involuntary care.

The cover of “Implementation of Kendra’s Law Continues To Be Severely Biased,” a report released by the New York Lawyers for the Public Interest (NYLPI) in March, shows a sign with the words, “Forced Treatment Kills.” That deceitful message is meant to frighten. As such, it does a disservice to persons with serious mental illness, their families, the public and those charged with developing public policy.

Kendra’s Law, commonly referred to as Assisted Outpatient Treatment (AOT), brought involuntary outpatient mental health care to New York in 1999. In 2005, the New York state Office of Mental Health issued “Kendra’s Law: Final Report on the Status of Assisted Outpatient Treatment.” It documented significant reductions in harmful behaviors, homelessness, psychiatric hospitalization, arrests and incarcerations as well as better adherence to prescribed medications and engagement with treatment services. Those under AOT reported a better sense of control over their lives. Noteworthy was the finding that the benefits directly correlated with the length of time under the order. Critically, OMH’s research found neither evidence of worsening health nor higher rates of mortality. Perversely, the NYLPI demands that NYS ” … discontinue use of Kendra’s Law, and in no event expand its scope or reach. In contrast, the OMH report urges, “ … that Kendra’s Law be extended permanently so these benefits can continue to be provided to those New Yorkers who require the support afforded to them through an AOT order. Twenty-five years on, that recommendation has yet to be realized.

The Alliance for Rights and Recovery is an advocacy organization composed of people having mental health and substance use disorders. They vehemently reject any proposals which would expand AOT. The Mental Health Association of New York State (MHANYS), describing its mission as being to improve the lives of individuals, families, and communities, has a broader view than the alliance. It is dismissive of research and erroneously asserts that AOTin 25 years “ … has not moved the needle around public safety.” They reject any expansion of involuntary outpatient treatment in more measured language and, tellingly, do not call for the termination of AOT. The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI-NYS) envisions its mission as working toward a world in which individuals and families affected by mental illness can achieve fulfilling lives. It is noteworthy that NAMI endorses passage of bills (S3474/A5538) that would expand and make AOT permanent. It appears the more broadly based advocacy organizations see value in sustaining AOTas an option.

The NYLPI, the Alliance for Rights and Recovery and MHANYS each argue that no expansion of AOT is warranted because persons with serious mental illness are more likely to be victims of, rather than perpetrators of, violent crime; that they commit a de minimis percentage of violent crimes; and that, with increasingly effective treatment, the numbers of such persons who cannot be engaged in treatment is diminishing. While true, none of these arguments refutes the existence of a significant cohort of seriously mentally ill patients who cannot be engaged in treatment.

As a psychiatrist, I, too, want people with psychiatric illnesses to have barrier-free access to services and wish that those requiring it would partake on a voluntary basis. However, the question remains how best to address the matter of those with serious mental illness who refuse to be engaged. When that group infringes on community life or, even worse, commits grave crimes, then an answer that balances their need for treatment with the need for safe communities must be sought. Unfortunately, several of the organizations which oppose AOT fail to suggest realistic solutions to that societal dilemma.

Notwithstanding gains flowing from AOT, New Yorkers continue to experience violence perpetrated by a diminishing but important cohort of dangerous mentally ill persons. The persistent inability to engage that group forces us to ask, “What more can be done?” The governor’s 2025 budget proposal advocates the expansion of outreach services and inpatient beds, changes that would extend the reach of AOT, and clarify the conditions under which persons with serious mental illness may be remanded for psychiatric evaluation and possible involuntary admission.

Last month, Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh, along with 25 colleagues, wrote an open letter to New York legislative leaders. “We all owe our residents expansive mental health services that prioritize communal wellbeing and safety.” “We applaud Governor Hochul for having the courage to propose these changes and we urge the Legislature to support (them).” Legislators and advocates should listen and respond to local community concerns. New Yorkers with serious mentally illness and New York communities will fare best when clinical evidence, not dogma, drives mental health policy.

MORE IN OPINION
Editorial cartoons for March 22, 2026: Iran war week 3, burned bridges, Trump’s favorite shoes
Syracuse missed opportunities to intervene at Nob Hill apartments (Editorial Board Opinion)
Florida offers test case for NY: Curbing lawsuits lowers insurance rates (Guest Opinion by Lauren Zelt)