Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

36°

Shootings are up in Syracuse from last year, Community speaks on child-involved violence

by Conor Wight

Wed, June 25, 2025 at 5:43 PM
Updated Wed, June 25, 2025 at 9:16 PM
00:01
00:00
Swing.jpeg
23
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SHOOTINGS
SYRACUSE
GUN VIOLENCE
CHILDREN
COMMUNITY
PREVENTION
HOMICIDES
INTERVENTION

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The news of four children shot in less than 24 hours, one fatally, has left Syracuse reeling.

The man in charge of coming up with ways to reduce shootings says these incidents are tragic, but believes the city is moving in the right direction.

Lateef Johnson-Kinsey, the Director of the Mayor’s Office to Reduce Gun Violence, has always advocated for intervention as a way to prevent shootings. He said that since his unique role was created in 2022, they’ve had success with “credible messengers” reaching would-be shooters and instead showing them a different path.

Syracuse Police data shows there’s been progress. The number of shooting incidents causing injury or death is down in 2025 when compared to 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, as well as the average over the past 10 years. However, shootings are up about 46% compared to this time last year in 2024.

Overall, homicides are down year over year. Nine people have been killed so far in 2025 compared to 11 at this point of the year in 2024.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

“We can't reach everybody," said Johnson-Kinsey. "It would be a mistake to say we can stop all gun violence."

He said prevention efforts are working, but these most recent shootings make him concerned, given the noticeably young age of the children involved.

On the evening of June 23, Syracuse Police said a shooter targeted an 8-year-old, a 9-year-old and a 12-year-old in their northside neighborhood. All three are expected to survive their injuries.

However, less than 24 hours later, a 15-year-old was shot and killed at the Upper Onondaga Park Pool in the city’s Strathmore neighborhood.

PREVIOUS COVERAGE | Syracuse Police name victim, increase officers at pools following homicide

These incidents have made neighbors fearful. A mother at a splash pad near the temporarily closed pool told the I-Team on Wednesday that she doesn’t bring her child anywhere near crowds anymore. A witness to Monday night’s shooting near the corner of Hier Avenue and Knaul Street said she believes this is all inevitable. Two teenagers who call that neighborhood home said the same.

“I don't want to be outside, it’s too hot and there are a lot of shootings,” 15-year-old Bishme Smith said.

Smith and his friend, Daijon Waren, said they have had to reconsider summer plans. The thought of playing basketball or going to the pool is now a scary one.

Johnson-Kinsey is hopeful that the city’s continued outreach efforts will inspire hope. He also echoed other city leaders calling on parents to do more and keep their children out of trouble, encouraging them to give his office a call if they are concerned they may have access to illegal guns.

READ THE COMMENTS (23)

“We have to continue to strive and be relentless about reaching those individuals to give them hope, How do we do that? I can't do that by myself. That takes a community,” Johnson-Kinsey said.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.