By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Mayor Ben Walsh has appointed a key department leader in the final weeks of his administration in coordination with
Mayor-elect Sharon Owens
.
The mayor’s office said Tuesday that Evan Loving is the city’s new director of the Office of Management and Budget, a high-profile position that has oversight of budgeting, the capital improvement plan, purchasing, and the division of equity compliance and social impact.
Owens, the deputy mayor for all eight years of the Walsh administration, was involved in the hiring process and supported Loving’s appointment, the mayor’s office said. Owens becomes the next mayor at the start of 2026 after her November election victory.
Loving is returning to City Hall after working in Virginia for more than four years. From 2018 to 2020, he was a special assistant to Walsh who worked with departments on budget development, engaged with the Syracuse Common Council, and recommended policy and process improvements.
Owens interacted with Loving in that role and believes he’s highly qualified to be her management and budget office director, said mayor-elect transition spokesperson Brooke Schneider.
Loving left Syracuse in 2021 for a position as a budget analyst for Henrico County, Virginia, in that state’s capital region. He later was a senior management specialist there, and then he launched a local government and nonprofit consulting firm in the Washington/Baltimore area.
“Evan has dedicated his career to helping organizations maintain fiscal responsibility and accountability,” Walsh said in a news release. “He has demonstrated a strong understanding of the city’s budget priorities that will enrich his leadership of the Office of Management and Budget.”
Loving earned a bachelor’s degree in government from George Mason University, a master’s degree in public administration from Virginia Commonwealth University and a Juris Doctor from the University of Richmond.
Loving steps into a role that’s been vacant for much of 2025. Walsh
fired former director Tim Rudd
in February after Rudd made comments comparing the mayor to a slave owner who uses Owens as a slave mother to break the children. Rudd, a former common councilor who ran for mayor against Owens this year, claimed the firing was retaliation because Rudd spoke out against the administration’s handling of a whistleblower complaint about an expensive and incomplete technology contract.
Julie Castellitto, the city’s assistant budget director since 2018, served as acting director for much of the year and led the department’s work on the 2025-26 city budget.
The next city budget will be one of the first major undertakings for the Owens administration. The mayor must present a draft proposal to the Syracuse Common Council in early April.
Last year, the council and the Walsh administration
clashed heavily
over the spending plan, with councilors overriding mayoral objections to more than $16 million in budget cuts the council made across all departments.
Owens has said she plans to more directly engage with the council in the development of her budget proposals, a strategy she’s been discussing with Council President-elect Rita Paniagua.
The Office of Management and Budget has a staff of roughly eight people and an annual budget of about $820,000. Rudd’s total pay in 2024 was $118,000. Loving’s starting pay is set at $125,000, the mayor’s office said.
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com