By
syracuse.com | The Post-Standard
Subscribe to get the Good Morning, CNY newsletter delivered to your email inbox weekday mornings.
Weather
High:
79.
Low:
49. Partly sunny and warm; see the
5-day forecast
.
Photo of the day
The 33rd Westcott Street Cultural Fair on September 28, 2025. Syracuse, N.Y. Shuyang (Sky) Zhuang | Contributing photographer
Shuyang (Sky) Zhuang
Festive day on Westcott Street:
The annual Westcott Street Cultural Fair brought music, dancing, food, crafts, a parade and more to Westcott Nation on Sunday.
Story, photos
. (Shuyang (Sky) Zhuang photo)
The latest
Could this factory-built home be the answer to Syracuse’s affordable housing crisis?
A one-story home in Syracuse’s Valley neighborhood looks like a lot of starter homes. It has three bedrooms and two bathrooms, with stainless steel appliances and a small front porch. But it was built in just two weeks for about 25% less than other new, standalone homes. Plus, it’s selling at a deep, taxpayer-funded discount meant to help qualified buyers get out of rentals and into home ownership. And it’s an example of the kind of home state and local officials believe
could be the solution to the affordable housing crisis in many communities, including Syracuse
.
What’s trending
Man shot multiple times at Mattydale convenience store
: A man in his 30s was shot multiple times at a convenience store in Mattydale late Sunday morning, according to the Onondaga County Sheriff’s Office.
He was later declared dead at Upstate University Hospital
.
After two hung juries, Fulton woman will take plea deal to end immigration case:
Doris Aleman-Bonilla is expected to plead guilty today in federal court to a lesser misdemeanor immigration charge after two hung juries and six months in jail. Aleman-Bonilla, 30, of Honduras, was charged with illegal re-entry, a felony, after a Border Patrol agent and an Oswego County sheriff’s deputy pulled over her car and arrested her in April. It marks the end of an extraordinarily lengthy jail term for the charge before Aleman-Bonilla.
But her immigration fight is just beginning
.
Well-known community activist to lead new philanthropic effort to lift South Side:
Chedy Hampson, who grew up near McKinley Park in Syracuse, developed his early interest in gaming into a wildly successful business that buys and sells gaming trading cards. In 2022, he sold his trading card company, TCGplayer, to the online auction site eBay for $295 million. He left the company and turned his attention to philanthropy,
and the South Side Community Growth Foundation he started has hired its first executive director
.
Looking ahead
Should Syracuse pay millions to fix the historic steps?
Nearly 100 years ago, workers hand-built, stone by stone, a 178-step staircase in Westminster Park that connects Euclid Avenue to the top of a 655-foot hill. The staircase, used by students and local residents, was closed in 2023 after city officials declared it a public hazard because it was in such disrepair. Now, city officials, lawmakers and residents are debating what should be done with the historic staircase.
The cost to repair it has risen from $1.2 million three years ago to $3 million
.
Sports
Syracuse Orange running back Yasin Willis (6) is tackled for no gain. The Syracuse Orange take on the Duke Blue Devils at the JMA Wireless Dome in Syracuse, New York Sept. 27, 2025. Dennis Nett | dnett@syracuse.com
Dennis Nett | dnett@syracuse.com
Orange pummeled by Duke at dome:
The Syracuse football team entered Saturday’s game riding on cloud nine. The Orange was on a three-game winning streak and was coming off its first win at Clemson in program history. There was even talk of Fran Brown possibly leaving Syracuse for an SEC job in the winter. None of it mattered to Duke, which left the JMA Dome with a 38-3 win.
The 35-point home loss was Syracuse’s worst since losing to Florida State by the same score in 2022
.
Rickie Collins shows a troubling tendency: ‘He can’t get worse, right?’
Duke’s dismantling of Syracuse begins in the film room
Overheard after SU’s blowout loss: ‘We just got punked’
Fran Brown on reversed penalty, fumble: ‘They made the right call’
Axe: Syracuse displayed its best and worst over 2 games
PFF grades/snap counts: Poor pass rush, run defense resurface in SU loss
Box score
|
Attendance
Bills survive scare from Saints:
Buffalo Bills quarterback Josh Allen put on his Superman cape late to save the day in a tight game against the New Orleans Saints. The Bills were 15.5-point favorites but needed a big drive late in the game from Allen to push past the Saints 31-19 on Sunday.
Here are five observations from the game
.
Encourages/Worried: Saints’ not-so-Philly-Special helps Bills win
Cole Bishop’s one-handed interception might be turning point in his season
MORE SPORTS:
Ryder Cup course announcer apologizes after expletive-laced chant
Corcoran football’s defense sets tone in win over Henninger (photos)
Video: Skaneateles students storm field after kicker nails game-winning FG
Central Square late takeaway ends Nottingham’s comeback hopes (photos)
Liverpool takes top spot at West Genesee’s Tournament of Bands (photos)
Section III girls swimming and diving leaders by class
CNY high school news, schedules, scores
In brief
How police say a man groomed a 12-year-old girl, sneaked her away and raped her
Firefighters battle large fire at DeWitt metal recycling plant
Editorial: Stop anonymous callers who are weaponizing NY’s child abuse hotline
Syracuse killed 137 deer in neighborhoods last year, second most since 2019
911 call for noise complaint in Syracuse may be crux of double homicide trial
Today’s obituaries
RECOMMENDED
Micron sales, profits soar to new heights (Good Morning CNY for March 19)
Mar. 19, 2026, 6:17 a.m.
Drivers wrongfully ticketed under new school-zone camera program (Good Morning CNY for March 23)
Mar. 23, 2026, 10:54 p.m.
To view today’s obituaries,
please click here
.
Your news. Your way.
New Custom Email Alerts let you select your favorite topics happening in your town.
Choose the topics you love, we’ll do the rest
.
Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard
news@syracuse.com