By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh’s administration today filed a lawsuit against a Chicago investment group who were
welcomed to town
two years ago when they promised to revive the notorious Skyline Apartments.
Clear Investment Group, which bought the Skyline in 2023 along with three other sorely neglected properties formerly owned by
Tim and Troy Green
, has itself neglected the properties, city officials said in lawsuit filed in state Supreme Court.
Instead of being renovated, the Skyline has suffered a fire, a massive water leak and other problems since Clear took over. The 352-unit building at 753 James St. – which Clear has renamed The Metropolitan – remains vacant and unfit for habitation, city officials say.
The syracuse.com logo
A subscription is required to read this story.
Subscribe now to continue.
The lawsuit asks a judge to appoint a receiver to manage the building and to force Clear to deposit $2 million for the receiver to make necessary repairs. The city also seeks a court order forcing Clear to correct multiple code violations that have accumulated fines of $355,000.
Before acquiring the Skyline for $13 million, Clear took over management from the previous owner, Green National Co., when a judge appointed Clear to be the receiver. At the time, Clear presented a $4.6 million
renovation plan
to bring the long-troubled property back to life. Clear bought the property weeks months later.
Syracuse officials say Clear has not lived up to its rehab plan.
The company’s conduct “demonstrates their complete inability to restore the property to habitable condition and constitutes a total disregard for the health and safety of the community,” according to the lawsuit.
Amy Rubenstein, CEO of Clear Investment Group, could not be reached immediately for comment.
Syracuse officials sued Green National, the company owned by Tim and Troy Green, in 2023 seeking a receiver because of the property’s history of unsanitary conditions, code violations and crime. Based on Clear’s plan for the building, city officials welcomed the Chicago company as receiver.
In addition to the Skyline, Clear acquired two smaller Green properties on James Street – the James and Chestnut Crossing. The city even encouraged Clear to buy another troubled Green property, the Vincent Apartments off Jamesville Avenue.
Only the Skyline property is mentioned in the city lawsuit.
The structure’s condition became more dire last month when it suffered a water leak that sent an estimated two million gallons cascading through the building, the lawsuit says. Alerted by a neighbor who saw
icicles forming
on the upper stories and water rushing under the door and onto the street, city firefighters entered the Skyline March to find a water leak that “had been occurring for the past several weeks to months,” the lawsuit says.
The property owners “were not even checking on their property,” the lawsuit says.
The leak left 10 feet of water in the basement and conditions similar to a skating rink on each floor of the 12-story building, city officials said. The volume of leaking water may have contributed to recent problems with water pressure throughout the city, officials said.
RECOMMENDED
Aunt Rhonda lands another win for Syracuse: a pharmacy in a health desert
Mar. 22, 2026, 5:23 p.m.
Syracuse.com’s 2026 spring media day boys lacrosse coach poll: Who’s primed for a breakout season?
Mar. 20, 2026, 2:43 p.m.
Ice covers a section of the Skyline Apartments facade in Syracuse on Tuesday, March 4, 2025, after an interior fire service water line ruptured on an upper story. (Jeremy Boyer I JBoyer@syracuse.com)
Jeremy Boyer I JBoyer@syracuse.com
Michael Collins, commissioner of neighborhood and business development, said the flood increased the urgency to bring the property under control. It left the building without a working fire suppression system, making it potentially more dangerous for firefighters.
“You’ve got a high-rise building that is simply not safe,‘’ Collins said.