Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Syracuse maintains neglected St. Anthony's Convent for absent property owner

by Dale Ostrander

Wed, March 26, 2025 at 6:47 PM
Updated Thu, March 27, 2025 at 10:45 AM
00:01
00:00
Despite the blaze, Congel, a member of the family behind Pyramid Brokerage and the Destiny USA mall, remains out of state and unresponsive to city officials. (Photo by CNY Central)
14
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
TAXPAYERS
ST. ANTHONY'S CONVENT
MARK CONGEL
FINANCIAL BURDEN
PROPERTY NEGLECT
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
CODE VIOLATIONS

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The long-neglected St. Anthony's Convent on Court Street in Syracuse, owned by Mark Congel, caught fire last Friday, leaving the city to maintain the property. Despite the blaze, Congel, a member of the family behind Pyramid Brokerage and the Destiny USA mall, remains out of state and unresponsive to city officials.

Community calls for action against owner of Convent Complex for property neglect

"We have been aggressive in citing the property and undertaking the necessary improvements and billing the property owner," said Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh. "However, he noted that efforts to take further action have been tempered by a partnership with Home Leasing, which has the property under contract for a housing development project."

While the city has spent $15,000 boarding up the property and another $23,000 on lawn maintenance and debris removal. At first thought it may seem like this is falling on taxpayers but, all the outstanding charges for maintenance have been rolling over to the property owners' tax bill come April 1st each year. In which Congel has been paying his taxes on the property. To go with that over the past decade, the property has accumulated 15 code violations.

Onondaga County Legislator Palmer Harvey acknowledged the lengthy process of holding Congel accountable.

Scope of code violations take the forefront of Nob Hill civil case

"Unfortunately, these processes can take a very long time," Harvey said. "But I do believe they need a hammer at this point to push harder against the owners."

Elected officials frustrated over Maria Regina's absent owner following massive fire

Bonnke Sekarore, running against Harvey in the upcoming election, questioned the city's commitment to housing.

"If the city government is committed to making sure that its residents have adequate housing, why is something like this vacant?" Sekarore said.

Harvey and Sekarore urged residents to voice their frustrations.

Harvey emphasized, "If we don't make a big stink about this as people, people like this are going to come and go and continue to destroy our city."

Sekarore, on the other hand, called for swift action.

“If the property owner is not cooperating, then we need to take it from him," said Sekarore.

READ THE COMMENTS (14)

The mayor's office confirmed that Walsh did not reach out to other members of the Congel family after Mark Congel stopped returning his calls.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Brain Doctors Connect Cognitive Decline to This Daily Food - Is It on Your Plate?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
U.S. Neurologists Call This Drink "Bottled Cognitive Decline" — Do You Drink It ?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Fulton Mayor says water and sewer employees are aiding DPW with snow removal
What is a deed of reconveyance, and how does it work?
Oswego County man pleads guilty to insurance fraud totaling over $10,000
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.