Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

38°

Dems block trans sports ban

Democrats blocked an amendment allowing transgender athletes to play women’s sports.

WATCH
Candidates speak on 'slave owner' comment made by fellow candidate, fired city employee

by Mary Kielar

Tue, August 26, 2025 at 5:27 PM
Updated Tue, August 26, 2025 at 5:40 PM
Syracuse City Hall. (Photo by CNY Central)

5
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
TIM RUDD
DEPUTY MAYOR
SHARON OWENS
COMMENTS
CITY GOVERNMENT
CONTROVERSY
CAMPAIGN

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — In a press conference on the steps of Syracuse City Hall, Tim Rudd outlined his nine-point campaign plan.

CNY Central asked him about some comments he made regarding Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens in January. In a recording, he said, "The slave owner uses the mother to break the children and control them," and added later, "That is already in the ether for Sharon."

On Tuesday, Rudd, who was fired from City Hall in February, said, "I want to talk about how we can grow as a city. I've been in city government for the last eight years. I was elected city-wide as a councilor. I served with honor as the budget director and any controversy I attempt to explain on my website and I will attempt to explain it in person. But in the media, I would prefer to talk about ideas."

He added, "There are people who want controversy, but I'm here to talk about results, talk about plans for the future, and I hope we can all do that, cause that's what this community needs. We don't need any more division and controversy that is created."

PREVIOUS COVERAGE | Syracuse Budget Director, 'RINO' candidate for mayor put on paid administrative leave

Candidates speak on 'slave owner' comment made by fellow candidate, fired city employee

The I-Team asked the other candidates about the comments.

Alphonso Davis, who is running on the Independent ticket, said Rudd exposed the dynamic between Mayor Ben Walsh and Deputy Mayor Owens.

"The things that Tim Rudd said were right in terms of how Ben Walsh has run this city. And how he has used Sharon as sort of a mouthpiece for just a particular set of people," said Davis.

He added, "I think those were a poor choice of words, but again, what Tim was referring to from my perspective and from me talking to him, is that wasn't what he was directing himself to in terms of calling people in the city of Syracuse slaves."

The Office of Syracuse Mayor Walsh said, "Deputy Mayor Owens is an honorable and dedicated public servant. The Mayor's Office won't dignify those disgraceful statements with further comment."

Republican Candidate Tom Babilon said it'll come up in these final months of campaigning.

"I'm sure it's going to be brought up," said Babilon. "Everybody makes comments that they regret. I think Tim was probably more let go because more because of the whistleblower aspect more than anything that he said. Working in City Hall for 10 years, I've heard a lot worse things said by City Hall employees, believe it or not. They may be reprimanded or something like that, but it certainly wasn't something they would get fired over."

READ THE COMMENTS (5)

The leader of the Onondaga County Democratic Party told CNY Central in a statement: "The Onondaga County Democratic Committee condemned Mr. Rudd's comments about Deputy Mayor Owens immediately after they came to light in February. Given his press conference today, where he chose not to address these statements, we see no reason to alter our position. Until he retracts his remarks and apologizes to Sharon Owens and the people of Syracuse, he remains unfit for public office. The Onondaga County Democratic Committee fully supports Sharon Owens in her quest to be the next mayor of Syracuse."

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Occupational Asbestos Exposure and Lung Canc er 
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
We've Won Over $5.7 Bill ion For Asbestos Victims
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.