By
Anne Hayes | ahayes@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse officials and the police chief say the police union inaccurately described crime in Armory Square in a
social media post
this weekend.
City Hall debunked the union’s widely read and commented on Facebook post that claimed the popular bar and restaurant area was “chaotic,” and “infiltrated” by “gangbangers.”
“Downtown Armory Square is not chaotic,” Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens said Monday.
The Syracuse Police Benevolent Association’s online post
painted a picture of a chaotic scene in Armory Square with violent gang members and others in and around the bars.
The union posted that SWAT was activated and an increased number of officers “put forth an incredible effort to quell the violence” by making around 40 arrests.
Syracuse police chief and city officials said Monday that the post contained inaccuracies and was not a true reflection of the atmosphere
in Armory Square this weekend.
Out of 50 arrests on Friday and Saturday night, 36
were tickets for violations, including open containers, noise violations and loitering. Syracuse Police Chief Joseph Cecile said. No arrests were for violent crimes like assaults, stabbings or shootings, a department spokesperson said.
SWAT was not “activated” for a specific call in Armory Square, Cecile said. SWAT members were finishing another call and were brought in as extra officers, he said.
The increased number of officers in Armory Square was a planned deployment, not an emergency response to violence, to counter people gathering after bars closed, city officials said.
Cecile said that business owners and police have seen a trend of people coming downtown, particularly late at night, and not patronizing the bars or restaurants. Instead, groups will have open liquor bottles and drink in parking lots or on the sidewalks, which is illegal, he said.
Merike Treier, the executive director of the Downtown Committee, said the increased police presence is not a response to a wave of violent crime. It is a coordinated effort to break up unsanctioned “block parties” once the bars close, she said.
Cecile said Treier’s characterization of the police detail was more accurate than the union’s post.
One person who said they frequent the bar scene commented on the union’s Facebook post that “it’s not bad at all. This past weekend there was a lot going on but most of the time things are just fine.”
After the bars stop
serving at 2 a.m. and close around 2:45 a.m., groups will continue to drink and party outside in unsanctioned “block parties”, Treier said.
Business owners met with police and city hall officials, including Owens, to request more police to address the after-hours situation, Owens said.
The increased police presence is working to ticket people who are perpetrating these illegal gatherings, Cecile said. The detail is not to discourage people from patronizing the businesses, he said.
Out of the 50 arrests,
officers made seven misdemeanor arrests and six felony arrests, police said. One of the felony arrests stemmed from an alleged arson at Parkside Commons, said Kieran Coffey, a spokesperson for the Syracuse Police Department. The rest were related to gun possession, he said.
Five handguns were recovered throughout the weekend, Cecile confirmed. Three were found in one vehicle Friday and charges are still pending in that case, he said.
The other two were found after stopping people, Coffey said.
Officers also wrote 66 parking tickets, towed five vehicles and wrote 15 moving violations.
On Tuesday, Syracuse Police Benevolent Union President Joe Moran, who wrote the post, defended his characterizations despite the criticism that he misrepresented the situation.
Moran said the goal of the post was transparency about what he saw working Saturday and feedback from his officers.
Moran cited one specific gun arrest as evidence of the “chaos” experienced by officers. He said that as police were arresting someone for gun possession, another person threw a liquor bottle at police.
He said that city officials should be concerned by the number of guns recovered during the initiative.
The Onondaga County Sheriff’s Office helicopter, Air 1, was part of the detail and tasked with monitoring ATVs and dirt bikes as well as overall situational awareness, Cecile said. Moran said officers were told they would have backup from the helicopter if needed.
The union’s post claimed, “perpetrators and gangbangers have infiltrated the bar scene on Friday and Saturday nights.”
Moran said Tuesday that “documented” gang members have “infiltrated” the bar scene by congregating outside businesses. He said he was not making people who patronize the bars, “the point of emphasis” in the post.
Cecile said some of the people police have seen gathering downtown and drinking outside after hours are gang members.
Cecile said that Armory Square is a vibrant place that draws people from all over, which can bring challenges, but it is safe.
Owens said she doesn’t know who the union is calling “gangbangers and perpetrators.”
The deputy mayor, who met with business owners and the police to discuss extra police in Armory Square, said the officers will focus on enforcing the law to address the issue of loitering and drinking in the open. The details will continue until the potentially dangerous gatherings die down, she said.
“I want people to understand that the vibrancy of Syracuse is a good thing,” Owens said. “Alarm bells being set off unwarrantedly is not good for business in Syracuse.”
Armory Square is Downtown Syracuse's primary entertainment district, including late-night bars and restaurants.
Anne Hayes | Ahayes@syracuse.com
Dad accused of killing daughter in Upstate NY called himself a ‘loving dad," posted often about her
9-year-old killed by father in Upstate NY died by drowning, troopers say
Upstate NY police chief placed on leave; girlfriend arrested over altercation
Troopers investigating suspicious death release name of the woman found dead in Clay home
Onondaga County voters likely to decide in November on 4-year terms, term limits
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.