Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

In Syracuse budget battle, council leader pledges to override all mayoral vetoes

by Conor Wight

Thu, May 15, 2025 at 1:46 PM
Updated Thu, May 15, 2025 at 2:51 PM
Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh (left) and Syracuse Common Council Acting President Pat Hogan (right) stand next to each other at an event in downtown Syracuse on Thursday (Photo by CNY Central)
4
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
BUDGET
COUNCIL
VETOES
MAYOR WALSH
DEFICIT
CUTS
SERVICES

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Acting president of the Syracuse Common Council is firm that there will be no compromise with Mayor Ben Walsh's administration when it comes to the city budget.

Walsh and members of the council have engaged in a very public and at times personal dispute over the budget in the wake of the council's decision to cut $16 million from what the mayor's team first proposed.

Council President Pro-Tempore Pat Hogan said councilors were concerned about a projected $27 million deficit and went to a third-party to identify places to save money. Walsh and department heads from across the city, including Syracuse Police Chief Joe Cecile, have stated that these cuts threaten vital city services.

PREVIOUS COVERAGE | Syracuse Common Council, Mayor at odds over proposed city budget

On Wednesday, Walsh met with Hogan and Councilor Corey Williams, who serves as chair of the council's finance committee. While Walsh said that he is looking for a compromise, promising to issue vetoes on certain amendments made by councilors, Hogan told CNY Central on Thursday that the budget submitted by the council is final.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

"I think we have a pretty solid budget, I think we're going to go forward with at least what we came up with at our last vote," Hogan said.

When asked what he would be willing to add back into the budget, he responded, "Right now, nothing."

At least six votes are needed for the council to override a veto from the mayor. Hogan said he expects all nine councilors to vote in lockstep to counteract any of Walsh's vetoes, which he indicated would be announced on Monday.

"I would like to think all nine of them are elected and in addition to listening to each other they listen to the people they serve, even if they don't listen to me," Walsh said, "I think we all need to be listening and open minded and not put a wall up, but again I can't control what they do, I can only control what I do."

Walsh has no further legal recourse once the council overrides a veto. He said the "reality" of what the council has done will set in at that point, meaning departments will have to start evaluating what kind of staffing and services they can sustain.

Hogan, who is running for mayor against Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens among other Democrats, has maintained that the council's cuts were fair, arguing no one's job was threatened. But department heads like Syracuse Parks Commissioner Syeisha Byrd warned that they would need to eliminate 36 seasonal jobs. Syracuse Fire Chief Michael Monds said their ability to actually fight fires is now threatened.

READ THE COMMENTS (4)

"That $27 million hole in the budget, that took me a couple of steps back," Hogan said, "Sometimes, you have to look at the departments and how they spend their money and you have to rein them in."

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.