Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

35°

Syracuse Rescue Mission: Fence separating homeless from downtown is not a solution

by Mary Kielar

Mon, June 9, 2025 at 4:55 PM
Updated Mon, June 9, 2025 at 5:23 PM
00:01
00:00
The City of Syracuse's DPW installed fencing last week along Dickerson Street near the Rescue Mission. (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)
10
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
RESCUE MISSION
HOMELESS
FENCING
SOLUTION
PUBLIC SAFETY
VULNERABLE
DRUG DEALERS

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Dan Sieburg, the Executive Director of Syracuse's Rescue Mission, the city's largest homeless shelter, told CNY Central he is not supportive of the fencing that went up last week.

"I don’t think fencing is any type of solution to the problems," he said in a statement on Monday.

He added, "Two years ago, fencing was put up all under the train bridge because people were doing illegal activities: Buying, selling and using drugs and causing nuisance-type behavior. So, the fencing went up and those problems migrated towards Dickerson Street. Now, new fencing is up to mitigate those problems from Dickerson Street and it’s migrating to Gifford Street."

Sieburg said the Rescue Mission has helped people in need for more than 130 years, but "Law enforcement of loitering, littering and removing drug dealers preying on the most vulnerable in our community is not in our scope of ability."

READ MORE | City leaders respond to concerns, questions over Syracuse Rescue Mission fencing

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Mayor Ben Walsh told the I-Team on Friday that the fence is not a permanent solution to the problem.

"We don't want to go too far before we understand what works well," Walsh said. "So, we're working on a parallel path, we are going to be designing those things and we're going to compare those designs with what we're seeing on the ground and adjust accordingly."


He said the fencing, installed by the Department of Public Works last week, is designed to protect vulnerable clients trying to access services at the Rescue Mission, without being preyed on by criminals.

"For the folks that are down there to do no good and to harm those people that are so vulnerable, our message to them is to move on and I believe they are getting that message," he said.

The mayor explained this is part of the city's Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) effort. The strategy is one used by municipalities across the country.

Homeless people living in downtown Syracuse told CNY Central they felt the fencing was more like a cage than anything else.

Deputy Onondaga County Executive for Human Services Ann Rooney said the need is high for a safe space for people to go, especially during the day.


"A place to go where they can be safe and not be preyed upon by others who might be trying to take advantage of them," said Rooney. "So, we are looking into that specific place to have."

READ THE COMMENTS (10)

She added, "The rationale for why the city put the fence in place, I'm sure they have their reasons. Public safety, I think, would be first among those. But I think we need to go above and beyond that, and finding that safe space for people is something that we've been working on now for several months."

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
REPORT: Gerry McNamar a is set to become the next head coach of Syrac use Men's Basketball
TRENDING
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
Drone drops knives, drugs and cell phone inside fence at Marcy Correctional Facility
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.