By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Joe Cecile had just put down a deposit on an RV and was ready to enjoy retirement on the road with his wife in 2022 when he suddenly found himself
taking over
as the Syracuse Police Department chief.
Kenton Buckner was
resigning
as chief after more than three years at the helm, and Mayor Ben Walsh turned to Cecile, the first deputy chief, who had 37 years of service to the SPD. Cecile, who had been a chief finalist when Walsh hired Buckner in late 2018, accepted the new role leading the city’s biggest department. He put retirement on hold.
But there’s always been a condition that Cecile established with his wife. When Walsh’s term ends, so would Cecile’s career in the police department.
“From one minute after being sworn in, I had already discussed it with my wife that I would do the entire term and go after that,“ he said. ”It’s been my plan for a long time."
Nothing about that plan has changed, the chief recently confirmed to syracuse.com. When he marks his final day on the job on Dec. 31, Cecile will have served in the SPD since September 1985, or more than 40 years.
For the past 15 years, Cecile has been part of the police department’s senior management. He became a deputy chief in 2010 and then first deputy chief in 2015.
In 2018, Cecile was one of three final candidates for the job, but the only internal one. Walsh decided to go outside the SPC roster and
hire Buckner,
who had been chief o the Little Rock Police Department in Arkansas since 2014. After meeting with Buckner, Cecile
decided
to remain as the new chief’s top deputy. Three years later, Walsh was asking Cecile to take over.
The other driver of Cecile’s decision to retire at year’s end is his belief that the time is right for a change at the top of SPD.
“I’m gonna ride it out with the mayor as long he’ll allow me to, but it’s time to turn it over to some of these younger people who are very capable and can take the ship in an even better direction,” Cecile said.
Cecile’s retirement plan sets up a key decision that the next city mayor will make in the transition between the fall election and the new term.
The chief said he’s happy to provide input to whomever becomes the mayor-elect, but he won’t insert himself into the process without being prompted.
“I would certainly give strengths and weaknesses of all folks I work with, and most of them are strengths,” he said.
One suggestion Cecile isn’t hesitant to make publicly is his belief that the next police chief should come from within the department.
“A hundred percent, I believe that,” he said. “We have some very, very talented people.”
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com