By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Developer Grazi Zazzara Jr. is proposing to build nearly 80 apartments in a historic building overlooking Interstate 81 near Franklin Square.
Icon Lofts at 311 Genant Drive would contain 75 apartments and a small commercial space, according to plans the developer has filed with the city.
Sixty-seven of the apartments would be market rate units and eight would be set aside for tenants with 80% or below the area median income to meet a city zoning ordinance.
There would be seven studio apartments, four two-bedroom apartments and 64 one-bedroom apartments.
Plans include 25 indoor parking spots, 52 outdoor gated parking spots, 30 rentable storage units, a fitness center, an outdoor terrace and an interior light court.
Zazzara estimates the cost of the project at $22.5 million.
He has applied to the Syracuse Industrial Development Agency for tax discounts. They would amount to a $804,525 exemption from sales taxes on construction material, a $101,250 exemption from the state mortgage recording tax and property tax discounts, the value of which would be determined later by the agency.
Built in 1893 and modified in 1899, the building originally housed the Syracuse Lighting Co., one of the predecessor companies to Niagara Mohawk Power Co. A portion of the structure was rebuilt in 1910 following a fire.
National Grid acquired Niagara Mohawk in 2002 and sold the building to developer Norm Swanson for $400,000 soon afterward. The power company continues to operate an electric substation next door.
Swanson initially planned to turn the building into a
microbrewery and beer garden-style restaurant
, and a tasting room featuring New York-made beers, wines and foods. His plans also called for four apartments and 5,000 to 10,000 square feet of office space.
But Swanson
canceled the project
in 2017 because of uncertainties surrounding the state’s
reconstruction of I-81
through downtown Syracuse. The state plans to demolish the elevated section of the highway and build a ground-level community grid in its place.
Zazzara, president of the Icon Cos.,
first announced his intention to redevelop the building
in 2022, but this is the first time he has filed formal site plans with the city.
His project places a greater emphasis on residential development than Swanson’s proposal.
Rendering shows the proposed redevelopment of the former Syracuse Lighting Co. building at 311 Genant Drive in Syracuse. Developer Grazi Zazzara has proposed building 75 apartments and a small commercial space in the more than 114-year-old building.
in-ARCHITECTS
Rendering shows the proposed redevelopment of the former Syracuse Lighting Co. building at 311 Genant Drive in Syracuse. Developer Grazi Zazzara has proposed building 75 apartments and a small commercial space in the more than 114-year-old building.
in-ARCHITECTS
Zazzara said the state Department of Transportation ‘s I-81 reconstruction project “will tie in nicely” with his project by including upgrades to an adjacent street that will improve vehicular access, pedestrian access and lighting to the area.
Changes planned for the 114-year-old building include an entry courtyard on the south side of the three-story structure and a streetside balcony overlook.
The project will utilize historic tax credits, according to the plans filed with the city. Zazzara also estimates the project would be eligible for a grant of up to $325,000 from the
Onondaga County Housing Initiative Program (O-CHIP)
program, which provides incentives for the private sector to building more housing.
The project is currently before the Syracuse Planning Commission and the Syracuse Landmark Preservation Board for review.
Zazzara has a history of redeveloping vacant Syracuse buildings for residential use.
In 2016, he built 89 apartments in Icon Tower, the former regional office of Excellus Blue Cross Blue Shield on South Warren Street.
In 2022, he completed
Corbett Corner
, a $4.7 million transformation of a long-vacant and dilapidated office building at 444 E. Genesee St. into 24 apartments.
Onondaga County’s top waste management official is retiring, search starts for replacement
45 workers laid off as rival acquires Central New York blood lab
Taste of Syracuse, Syracuse Nationals will be held this year after lawsuit with lender settled
Industry veteran who helped create Central NY drone corridor to lead NUAIR
Got deep pockets and a knack for building? Onondaga County has a dead mall to sell you
Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact Rick Moriarty at
rmoriarty@syracuse.com
or (315) 470-3148.
Rick Moriarty
I report on business news and consumer issues for The Post-Standard and syracuse.com. I can be reached at (315) 470-3148.
rmoriarty@syracuse.com