Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

47°

Syracuse snow plow operators unlicensed, companies begin filing paperwork

by Nicole La Fiandra

Wed, December 10, 2025 at 6:55 PM
One of the snow plows in Syracuse. (Photo by CNY Central)

9
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
SNOW PLOW
LICENSING
CITY AUDITOR
PRIVATE CONTRACTORS
SIDEWALK CLEARING
RFP
INSURANCE

SYRACUSE, N.Y — Not a single private snow plow operator is currently licensed to operate in the city of Syracuse, according to the Syracuse city auditor. However, a handful of companies have started the process to obtain the necessary licenses to operate legally within the city.

City Auditor Alexander Marion explained the importance of these licenses, "Every piece of equipment they have, there is supposed to be a decal, issued by the city of Syracuse proving that that equipment is currently licensed by the city of Syracuse."

Despite the requirement, no company has yet obtained a license. Marion noted some progress, saying, "I’m pleased to say on the back end of our licensing system, five companies reached out to submit applications. None of them have been submitted yet, but we’ve seen people open the files, upload the documentation they would need to submit applications."

These licenses are crucial as they ensure drivers are trained to handle the special equipment and have the necessary insurance. Neighbors can verify a company's legitimacy by asking to see their license. For those interested in obtaining a license, the city's website provides detailed information on the process.

There is new clarity on who needs a license and who does not. Auditor Marion said, “The City of Syracuse has a sidewalk clearing program, where we contract with a private company to provide snow removal on our sidewalks, and in that contract, they are supposed to be licensed in the RFP, request for proposals package, that went out earlier this year, it even included the licensing documents. And as we've seen the contract, awarded on November 18th, unfortunately it does not appear the provider is licensed.”

Syracuse snow plow operators unlicensed, companies begin filing paperwork

City Hall's spokesperson responded to that, giving CNY Central the following statement:

The City of Syracuse would like to clarify that the Supplemental Sidewalk Snow Removal Contractor is not required to obtain an Annual Snow Plowing License. This contractor operates under a formal agreement with the City, following a competitive Request for Proposals (RFP) process and a contracting procedure that grants permission to perform sidewalk snow removal work within the public right-of-way on behalf of the City...
READ THE COMMENTS (9)
...The Annual Snow Plowing License is specifically designed to regulate private contractors who operate within the public right-of-way for the purpose of clearing driveways or roads. These contractors must be licensed to ensure they meet minimum requirements and acknowledge the laws that state that their operations do not obstruct sidewalks or other public amenities during snow removal. References to licensing requirements in the bid refer to CDL Class B driver requirements and were later amended. The Annual Snow Plowing License was not a requirement of the bid package.
  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Occupational Asbestos Exposure and Lung Canc er 
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
Lung Cancer From Asbes tos? File Your Claim Now.
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
OCC put on lockdown because of threat; turns out to be paintball gun
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.