Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Syracuse leaders propose updates to municipal tree ordinance

by Rachel Culver

Thu, April 10, 2025 at 11:29 PM
00:01
00:00
Syracuse leaders propose updates to municipal tree ordinance




5
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
TREE ORDINANCE
MUNICIPAL TREES
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
URBAN FORESTRY
CANOPY COVER
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
QUALITY OF LIFE

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse leaders are turning their attention to the city's trees as they plan for the future. The Syracuse Division of Forestry hosted a public open house to discuss proposed updates to the municipal tree ordinance, a topic gaining momentum as the I-81 viaduct is set to come down.

The open house aimed to inform the community and provide an opportunity for residents to influence how trees are preserved, protected, and prioritized in Syracuse. Laura Kreidler, a longtime community member and gardener of native plants, expressed the benefits of living around trees. "I think people want to live around trees. I think they automatically feel happier, and they obviously have the benefits of cooling and in the winter slowing winds," she said. "I think there are financial benefits to living around trees, environmental benefits. But I think those kind of things make quality of life much better."

Stephen Harris, the city arborist, is leading the effort to update the ordinance for the first time since 1983. "The ordinance is the rule book for how to treat trees in the public right away," Harris said. "So our goal is to update what the rules are around trees that we own and how people deal with them and protect them."

The initiative is supported by industry professionals, including Emmanuel Carter, an associate professor in the Department of Landscape Architecture at SUNY ESF. "If you think about your car, okay, it's only as dependable as its engine. A city has a working city scale," Carter said. "It's an engineering environment, but it's also a natural environment. And those things are all working together to basically help determine the quality of our lives."

Harris noted that Syracuse is playing catch-up. especially with the anticipated land gain from the I-81 removal. "The current tree canopy cover is 28% and estimated 28%. We would like to grow up to 35% and we would like all the neighborhoods no matter the income level of that neighborhood to have equal canopy of at least 30%," he said.

Scope of code violations take the forefront of Nob Hill civil case
READ THE COMMENTS (5)

The ordinance is being modernized to address both public and private land, update design standards, and guide urban forestry over the next 20 years.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
U.S. Neurologists Call This Drink "Bottled Cognitive Decline" — Do You Drink It ?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
Fly La Compagnie: Business Travel, Reimagined
La Compagnie
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Fulton Mayor says water and sewer employees are aiding DPW with snow removal
What is a deed of reconveyance, and how does it work?
Oswego County man pleads guilty to insurance fraud totaling over $10,000
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.