Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

42°

Leaders: Police union left context out of Facebook post calling Armory Square 'chaotic'

by Mary Kielar

Mon, July 14, 2025 at 5:41 PM
Updated Mon, July 14, 2025 at 5:49 PM
Walton Street in Armory Square. (Photo by CNY Central)

11
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
POLICE
ARMORY SQUARE
ARRESTS
GANGBANGERS
FACEBOOK POST
CHIEF JOE CECILE
DEPUTY MAYOR OWENS
BAIL REFORM

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The Syracuse Police Benevolent Association posted on Facebook Sunday, detailing what was called a "chaotic" weekend in Armory Square.

Part of it read: "Best term to describe the current state of Downtown Armory Square, as perpetrators and gangbangers have infiltrated the bar scene on Friday and Saturday nights. Despite our members' inability to effectively enforce quality of life issues due to bail reform, they still put forth an incredible effort to quell the violence by making approximately 40 arrests, along with a number of felony arrests and 5 handguns being recovered."

The I-Team saw the post and began to ask questions, including what the arrests were for and why an official release had not come from Syracuse Police.

Chief Joe Cecile said, "The arrests were referring to open containers or loitering. There are appearance tickets for violations." He said, "They weren't 40 arrests for assaults and robberies and burglaries and felonies."

One man arrested over the weekend brought a full bottle of vodka, according to police.

Leaders: Police union left context out of Facebook post calling Armory Square 'chaotic'

The chief confirmed that he'd gone to Mayor Ben Walsh and Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens last week, asking for extra officers to deal with a specific issue popping up in Armory Square. They agreed immediately, Chief Cecile told CNY Central.

"This is very early in the morning that this trend is occurring, and that's what we were trying to address," said Chief Cecile. He explained that it happens well after the bars close down for the night.

"A post like this can affect business, and those folks, their businesses, the taxes they pay, all the patrons that come down there and eat dinner or go and have a few drinks, that's what pays our salaries. So, you just got to be careful. It wouldn't be a post I would do."

Deputy Mayor Owens said the post should've been about the partnership between the neighbors who reached out about the issue and the officers who did their job to address it.

"We all need to be very responsible in the language that we use and what we say," she explained. "Are there individuals in our community engaged in activities that I or you are not engaged in? Absolutely. But that doesn't mean that everybody in the situation who left the bar and who left an eating establishment is a gangbanger or somebody with ill intentions."

The Syracuse Police Benevolent Association President told the I-Team on Monday that he was at a golf tournament and would not be available for comment until Tuesday.

Data from the weekend from SPD:

Armory Square: July 11, 2025

Arrest/Tickets/Towed Vehicle/Seizure Statistics

Parking Tickets -- 46
Moving Violations -- 10
Appearance Tickets -- 17
Misdemeanor arrests -- 2
Violation arrests -- 1
Vehicles towed -- 2
DWI -- 1
Handguns recovered -- 3

*Arrests pending in regards to the guns recovered on this date.

Armory Square: July 12, 2025

Arrest/Tickets/Towed Vehicle/Seizure Statistics

READ THE COMMENTS (11)
Parking Tickets -- 20
Moving Violations -- 5
Appearance Tickets -- 19
Misdemeanor arrests -- 5
Felony arrests -- 6
Vehicles towed -- 3
Handguns recovered -- 2
  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.