By
Glenn Coin | gcoin@syracuse.com
Jon Moss | jmoss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. -- Residents and businesses in some Onondaga and Madison county towns
could run out of water by Sunday
if residents and businesses don’t step up their conservation efforts, officials said today.
Some areas could “run out of water sometime this weekend” because of a ruptured transmission line in Cicero, said Jeff Brown, executive director of the Onondaga County Water Authority, at a news conference this afternoon.
The areas most vulnerable to losing water are the southern part of the village of Manlius, the northern portion of the town of Pompey, and parts of the village of Fayetteville, officials said.
But water users across six towns in Onondaga and Madison counties need to continue to cut back in order to keep that area at risk of losing water from growing.
“There’s no guarantees that other parts of the system won’t be impacted,” said Onondaga County Executive Ryan McMahon, who referred to the pipe break as “a crisis.”
Levels in water tanks supplying six towns continue to drop after a major transmission line ruptured recently, officials said. The two big tanks in Manlius, which hold a combined 50 million gallons, have dropped to 18% of their capacity. They were at 20% on Monday, Brown said.
The good news, Brown said, is that the water level in the tanks is dropping more slowly than a couple of days ago and that the size of the areas that could lose water is shrinking.
“Conservation is helping, no doubt about it, as our main storage facility is lowering slower than normal,” Brown said. “But the bad news, it is still lowering.”
The six towns affected by the break are Manlius, DeWitt, Pompey, Sullivan, Lenox and Lincoln.
OCWA users in six Central New York towns are facing decreased water pressure after a pipe burst in Cicero just days before Christmas. That pipe feeds these storage tanks, which are now down to about 18% capacity. OCWA is asking users to conserve water to avoid larger shortages over the next couple of weeks.
Source: OCWA
Brown said those six towns typically use about 5 million gallons of water a day. That number has dropped to about 4 million, he said, but needs to drop to 3.5 million gallons in order to avoid anyone running out of water.
OCWA has created a patchwork of emergency water shipments. The agency is pumping more water from Otisco Lake and Skaneateles Lake to supply the two tanks. In addition, the city of Oneida water system is sending water to Canastota and Chittenango, relieving the pressure on OCWA to supply those Madison County villages.
OCWA even laid a 400-foot temporary water line overnight to bring water from a different part of its system, Brown said.
Businesses large and small are taking steps to use less water too, officials said. Byrne Dairy, in DeWitt, is bringing in tankers of water. Lotte Biologics, a pharmaceutical company in East Syracuse, said it’s changed its process to use less water. And a medical facility in DeWitt, which Brown declined to name, has rented portable toilets for staff to use so patients can continue to use indoor toilets.
Repairing the break is a complicated process that could take two weeks, officials said. Brown said OCWA has obtained the steel sheeting it will need to help stabilize the wet soil. Those sheets are being driven 40 feet into the ground, he said.
The repair will require digging a 150-foot long trench and extracting excess groundwater with 10 pumps before putting in fill and laying the new pipe.
The county is preparing to truck in water in tankers and bottles if needed, said Dan Wears, the county’s emergency management commissioner. McMahon said Tops Markets and Kinney Drugs have provided water that could be distributed soon if necessary.
“We’ve procured and secured thousands of gallons of water bottles to go out to the public for drinking water,” McMahon said. ”If there are impacted areas, we will be able to get you water. There’s no reason to think you won’t have water.”
The village of Fayetteville will have one large water tanker on standby for firefighting purposes and could bring in others if needed, fire Chief Paul Hildreth said.
OCWA and the county will hold another news conference at noon Wednesday to provide an update.
OCWA Director Jeff Brown explains the repair process for a main distribution line in Cicero that ruptured, jeopardizing water to Manlius, DeWitt and Pompey in Onondaga County and Lenox, Lincoln, and Sullivan in Madison County. Dec. 23, 2025
Jon Moss | jmoss@syracuse.com
OCWA ends mandatory water restrictions in six CNY towns, but still urges conservation
OCWA: Replacement of ruptured water main should be done this week
OCWA repairs of ruptured water line enters next phase as water supply holds steady
OCWA water pipe update: How are the repairs going?
Upcoming snowstorm complicates OCWA repairs. Here’s when they’ll release a new timeline
Glenn Coin
Glenn Coin is the science and technology, weather and environment reporter for syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. He also covers Micron Technology's plans to build a leading-edge semiconductor plant in Central...
more
gcoin@syracuse.com