By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – City officials in April boarded up and padlocked a convenience store on the North Side after police said an employee sold synthetic marijuana, or “spike,” to an undercover informant.
Across town on the South Side, code enforcement officials shut down a corner store in February after Onondaga County health inspectors accused the store of selling tobacco or vape products to minors.
The closures are part of Mayor Ben Walsh’s quiet but aggressive campaign against what he calls “problem retail stores.”
Individually, the enforcement actions attracted little attention beyond the immediate neighborhoods. But one by one Walsh shut down a whopping 42 convenience stores in the past few years -- roughly one of every seven such establishments.
The war on corner stores is one example of Walsh’s efforts to address the thorny problems that affect daily life in the city. By taking action against stores that flout the rules, the city has boarded up businesses that are often magnets for litter, loitering and crime, he said.
Walsh, whose time as mayor will end Dec. 31, came into office wanting to make city government work better and improve the quality of life for residents.
He did.
That’s not to say he didn’t have failures or shortcomings. Walsh’s greatest strength – the urge to listen and collaborate – sometimes worked against the need for timely action.
Even his loyal deputy mayor,
Sharon Owens
, who will succeed him in January, criticized Walsh for tiptoeing around problems at a massive public housing initiative on the South Side.
Walsh also raised property taxes three times. That put him at odds with the
Common Council
-- especially this year when councilors unanimously rejected a fourth increase. The mayor insisted that tax increases were a responsible strategy for a city that runs chronic budget deficits.
For the past eight years Walsh has pushed for a wide variety of improvements in city operations, often grinding ahead in the face of bureaucratic inertia. Some of the projects were mundane. But he produced tangible results.
He introduced new
trash and recycling carts
that cut down on litter and employee injuries. He changed
the way sidewalks are paid for
and then replaced 47 miles of walkway with new concrete.
He pushed city workers to improve their turnaround time for reviewing construction permits. He bought the
city streetlights
from National Grid and attached data nodes to all the poles in hopes that someday they would find a use.
Walsh also pulled in state resources to help with projects that cash-strapped Syracuse could never pull off on its own.
He spearheaded creation of the first regional
STEAM school
in New York state, a complex project that required state and county help and took years to reach fruition.
Walsh also got the state to help pave the way for up to
545 new units of housing
to be built near Burnet Park, after demolishing the derelict and tax-delinquent Syracuse Developmental Center.
Much of what was accomplished during the Walsh administration was not sexy. Like a new zoning ordinance that took six years to finish.
None of it was easy.
In the case of corner stores, litigation was almost inevitable. At least 10 of the shuttered stores have sued the city. The store owners say city officials ordered them to close without giving them a fair chance to correct code violations or dispute allegations of wrongdoing. Most of the cases are pending.
Walsh’s biggest headache came when he tried to modernize the city payroll system with new software.
City Hall was
thrown into turmoil
last winter after an IT consultant revealed that her company had been paid $90,000 for doing nothing on the project. Walsh pressed on with the work, but it will be up to his successor, Owens, to finish the long-delayed undertaking.
Walsh brought to the mayor’s office a mantra to listen to city residents and a drive to improve the nuts-and-bolts services the city provides.
Walsh addressed “the quality-of-life fixes that make daily life better,” Rick DeStito, a West Side developer, wrote on Facebook. “They might not be flashy, but they make the city function. And that matters most. Is everything perfect now? Hell no, but we have made some massive progress!”
The ‘big table’
Walsh, 46, is unique in the modern history of Syracuse mayors – a political independent. He won two landslide elections in a city dominated by Democrats.
On
Election Night in 2017
, when he was first elected, Walsh declared that his administration would be a “grand experiment” in nonpartisan governance.
His preferred M.O. has been less to lead than to work as a collaborator. He calls himself a “convener.”
Two years after taking office, Walsh created a quality-of-life commission, with 20 representatives from across the city. The group has met quarterly since then to discuss issues ranging from deer management to homelessness to broadband access.
Watch