Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

39°

'These pools raised me': Public stays hopeful about Onondaga Park despite recent violence

by Mary Kielar, Matthew Benninger

Thu, June 26, 2025 at 11:40 AM
Updated Thu, June 26, 2025 at 7:06 PM
A Syracuse Police Officer walks by the pool at Onondaga Park moments after a fatal shooting. (June 24, 2025) (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)

5
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
ONONDAGA PARK
SYRACUSE
POOL
SHOOTING
ADHON THOMAS
POLICE
SAFETY
VIOLENCE

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The Onondaga Park pool in Syracuse is reopened at noon on Thursday.

The pool was shut down by city officials on the afternoon of June 24 following a fatal shooting. The Syracuse Police Department identified the victim as 15-year-old Adhon Thomas. He was taken to the hospital with a gunshot wound to the stomach and was later pronounced dead.

As of Thursday morning, Syracuse Police have not identified a suspect or announced any arrests in the shooting.

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh promised to beef up police patrols at city pools and parks in response to the violence. However, CNY Central crews at Kirk Park, Lincoln Park McKinley Park did not see any officers present.

Some community members reported to CNY Central that they no longer felt safe at parks. One of them said it was "sad" that they needed to be at the parks with their children to ascertain their safety.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

At the time of the shooting, Syracuse Police Spokesperson Kieran Coffey said he "believed" there was one officer present at Onondaga Park, but they were not by the pool.

Syracuse resident Joseph McCoy grew up in the area and currently lives near Onondaga Park with his family. He said the park is one of the most beautiful in the city.

"We're here all the time, probably at least five times a week," McCoy said. "This place is a blessing."

Syeisha Byrd has been Commissioner of Parks, Recreation & Youth Services since November 2024. She echoed McCoy's statements.

"These pools raised me, these parks raised me," said Byrd. "They're going to raise thousands more children in our community."

Bryd said that at least 15 people were working at the pool when Thomas was shot. The 15 people are composed of lifeguards and other staff at the park. She noted that her staff returned to work on Thursday when the pool reopened and said that they were provided with experts, therapists and social workers.

The shooting at Onondaga Park came less than 24 hours after three children were shot on the city's northside. The children were ages 12, 9 and 8. They are all expected to survive their injuries. Syracuse Police Chief Joseph Cecile said the suspect who shot the children was on a Veo bike and some sort of argument occurred before the violence.

Byrd said the recent shootings have hurt her as a mother, but she won't but deterred.

"Our staff want to come back to work," said Byrd. "Trauma works in different ways. You may not be affected for a week. Right? We will continue to provide and surround our staff with support."

McCoy said he will continue to come to Onondaga Park.

The pool shooting occurred on a day that saw record-breaking heat in Syracuse. Due to the intense temperatures, most city schools opted for half days, with the district's high schools being the only exception.

READ THE COMMENTS (5)

The park was busy when the single shot rang out, but no one else was struck by gunfire, Mayor Walsh said.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.