Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

36°

Syracuse officials explore options as Trump kills funding for neighborhood rebuild

by Conor Wight

Mon, July 7, 2025 at 4:17 PM
Updated Mon, July 7, 2025 at 6:40 PM
00:01
00:00
Pioneer Homes will need to be rebuilt when I-81 comes down. The federal government just made that a lot harder to accomplish (Photo by CNY Central)
9
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
TRUMP
FUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD
REBUILD
FEDERAL
DEFICIT
INFRASTRUCTURE

With a stroke of his pen, President Donald Trump signed a spending bill into law that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates will add $3.4 trillion to the federal deficit over the next 10 years. The bill also takes away $30 million dollars that the City of Syracuse won last year to help rebuild one of the country's poorest neighborhoods.

Since May, local officials have expressed concern that the Republican controlled congress would rescind funding under the Neighborhood Access and Equity program. President Trump's so-called "Big Beautiful Bill" does just that, impacting a multi-billion dollar set of initiatives designed to help cities nationwide. For Syracuse, the residents in the public housing Pioneer Homes neighborhood are the ones losing out. Combined with $150 million from New York State, the $30 million in federal dollars was meant to help rebuild infrastructure to set the stage for reimagined housing around the community grid once the I-81 viaduct comes down.

Mayor Ben Walsh's neighborhood development leader, Michael Collins, said that the news was extremely disappointing. Still, he said that they are not giving up hope just yet; the language of the bill specifically states "the unobligated balances of amounts made available to carry out section 117 of title 23, United States Code, are rescinded" - referring to the Neighborhood Access and Equity Grant program. Syracuse won its grant in 2024, but was waiting on the money to actually be delivered. Collins said there is a possible argument that these funds are in fact legally obligated, depending on interpretation from the Federal Highway Administration.

"While the language certainly does not look good, we're going to continue to do everything we can for our local constituents to make sure every avenue has been travelled," Collins said.

Acting Common Council President Pat Hogan said that he's looking for further explanations, given he believes it's possible the Walsh Administration didn't do enough to bring the money in fast enough ahead of the Trump presidency.

Syracuse officials explore options as Trump kills funding for neighborhood rebuild

"I am concerned that it was fumbled locally," Hogan said.

In May, Syracuse I-81 Project Director Joe Driscoll said that they were ultimately waiting on the federal government. He said they needed to meet environmental impact requirements, a process that was taking far too much time to complete to allow for the money to be secured ahead of 2025.

"From our perspective, there's no regret or a wish that we could have played it differently," Driscoll told CNY Central at the time.

READ THE COMMENTS (9)

Collins said that if the federal money is truly irrecoverable, they will explore other options. He said that $30 million would need to be achieved in piecemeal fashion from various sources.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Asbestos Exposure Can Haunt You Years Later
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
Occupational Asbestos Exposure and Lung Canc er 
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
Survey: Most couples keep at least some of their money separate
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.