By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh on Tuesday unveiled a state-funded project aimed at reducing the city’s carbon footprint and preparing for climate change impacts.
Walsh used an Earth Day event at the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry to announce the Sustainable Syracuse program.
Sustainable Syracuse is being funded through a $100,000 grant from the state Department of Environmental Conservatio Climate Smart Communities Program. City planners will work with C&S Cos., which was selected through a request for proposals process last fall, to develop a community and municipal Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory and Climate Action Plan that will guide city efforts to mitigate its climate impact. Community engagement around the program is expected to start in the fall.
Walsh has established a city government sustainability task force that is advising on both the climate action plan’s formation and efforts to tie that into the city’s comprehensive plan, which is being revised this year.
More information on Sustainable Syracuse is available at
syr.gov/sustainable-syracuse
.
In addition to the program launch, Walsh honored ESF Professor
Emanuel Carter
with a proclamation for his career teaching landscape architecture and community service.
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
New venue will let you play 18 holes of golf in downtown Syracuse later this year
See Syracuse’s 25 most dangerous intersections (and how the city plans to make them safer)
Syracuse’s mayoral primary was a landslide. Is it a wakeup call for old guard Democrats?
Crews will start removing dozens of trees this month at historic Syracuse park
Pat Hogan: ‘I’m not going anywhere’ despite overwhelming Syracuse mayoral primary loss
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.