By
Greta Stuckey | gstuckey@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — The city of Syracuse is planning to install a “clanker system” to try to stop trucks from hitting the Park Street bridge.
The project, set to begin midway in 2026, will involve hanging a line of heavy rubber buoys ahead of the bridge at the same height. If an over-height truck approaches, it will strike the buoys, creating a loud noise intended to alert the driver before they reach the bridge, according to Connor Muldoon, the city’s chief operating officer.
Keep Watching
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
City officials began exploring the clanker system idea after seeing it used successfully in Delaware, Muldoon said.
Clearance under the CSX railroad bridge is 12 feet 2 inches. Tractor trailers are typically 13 to 14 feet high.
The bridge was hit five times in 2020 and 2021, four times in 2022, nine times in 2023, 13 times in 2024 and six times so far in 2025, according to Syracuse police spokesperson Kieran Coffey.
The project is estimated to cost around $500,000. However, the city will learn more once construction bids come in.
Syracuse will pay the upfront cost, but the expense will then be fully reimbursed through the New York State CHIPS program, which can be used for road and highway improvements.
Muldoon said the design and permitting phase is nearly complete. The effort requires coordination among the city, the state Department of Transportation, Central New York’s Water Authority (OCWA) and CSX, which falls under federal oversight.
The Onondaga Lake Parkway bridge has long been known for similar issues, though state officials say the number of strikes has dropped in recent years.
Four trucks hit the parkway bridge this year. While the DOT has tested new signage, pavement markings and lane reductions there, the clanker system has not been used on the parkway, said DOT spokesperson Sabrina Betts.
The city hopes to have the new system installed and working by the end of 2026.
Onondaga Historical Association to honor 3 at annual Medal Breakfast
A Syracuse credit union is about to get a lot bigger after a merger
$2 million Powerball ticket sold at New York convenience store for Monday’s drawing
See top countries of origin for immigrants in Syracuse
‘Chicago Teen Edition’ at Oneida High School this weekend
Greta Stuckey
Greta Stuckey joined Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard in November 2024 as a crime and public safety reporter. She covers topics including crime, politics and the occasional human-interest story. Before joining...
more
gstuckey@syracuse.com