Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse Police Chief Joe Cecile Thursday defended officers striking a man during an arrest, but said some policies and procedures were violated.

The chief issued a statement late Thursday about the arrest of two men on South Avenue on Wednesday afternoon after a traffic stop.

A video posted online by a bystander of the arrests had generated outrage by some online with commenters questioning the arrests and some calling for an investigation.

The chief said as officers attempted to arrest one man, the man refused multiple commands to put his hands behind his back.

“Three controlled strikes were directed to his head and face in order to get him to lift his hands so officers could take his wrists and place him back into handcuffs,” Cecile said. “This tactic worked.”

The chief said “the optics of strikes to the face and head are always bad” but are within department policy and state Division of Criminal Justice Services standards. The purpose of the strikes is to force the man to raise his hands so officers can take his wrists and place him into custody, he said.

The chief, however, said body worn cameras did reveal policy and procedure violations that will be dealt with discipline and retraining.

The chief did not say what the violations were. The department did not respond to questions about the violations from Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard.

The statement from the police chief outlined what lead up to the arrests.

At 3:09 p.m. Wednesday, officers stopped a vehicle at the intersection of South Avenue and Bellevue Avenue for vehicle and traffic violations. Police did not say what violations caused the stop.

Officers discovered that neither the driver nor the passenger had a valid driver’s license. That meant the vehicle had to be towed, the chief said.

The driver, Jaumar Chandler, 21, and the passenger, Antal Tatum, 22, were free to walk around and use their cell phones, Cecile said.

Because they had not been searched, they were told to keep their distance from officers but both men failed to do this, he said. Chandler continued to reach into his pockets, the chief said, despite being asked multiple times to keep his hands visible.

Officers placed him in handcuffs without force and sat him in the back of a patrol vehicle while the tickets and other paperwork were being processed, the chief said.

While in the patrol car, Chandler made multiple comments that he was going to “shoot the officer and spit on the officer,” Cecile said. Chandler also made derogatory comments about the officer’s family members, he said.

After the paperwork was completed, Chandler was taken out of the patrol car and his handcuffs were removed, Cecile said. It is at this time that he turned and spat in the direction of the officer, the chief said.

This is about where the video shared on social media caught what happened next.

View this post on Instagram

A post shared by Khi Ayee (@khi_omfk)

Cecile said the officer took Chandler to the ground and arrested him.

The video shows Chandler struggling with several officers as they try to handcuff him. That’s when officers hit him three times, according to the chief.

Chandler was charged with harassment and resisting arrest.

Tatum was arrested because he tried to intervene in the arrest of Chandler, the chief said.

He was charged with obstructing governmental administration and resisting arrest.

Cecile said there were no visible injuries on either man and both refused medical treatment when offered. A family member told Syracuse.com that the men went to a hospital on Wednesday night.

Chandler’s mother, Lataya Dixson, said her son called him during the arrest and that he was driving with a learner’s permit.

The president of the Syracuse Police Benevolent Association Joseph Moran said the use of force by the officers was justified.

“When a perpetrator spits at or on our members, our members are going to put their hands on the perpetrator and then tackle the perpetrator to the ground, so they are not spit on or at again, Moran said.

“Our members will use reasonable and necessary force to place the perpetrator in custody and arrest him/her, as what happened in this incident,” he said.

CRIME AND PUBLIC SAFETY ARTICLES
How the screening system used by schools and hospitals misses nearly 14,000 NY sex offenders
Man gets 25 years to life in Syracuse killing; judge cites ‘rage’
Believe 31: Central Square fundraiser supports firefighters with cancer
Trial to begin today for NY corrections officer accused in fatal beating of Messiah Nantwi
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week