Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

43°

Syracuse crime is down overall, but sexual violence in one area drives citywide increase

by Stevie Ali

Thu, December 11, 2025 at 8:16 PM
The Syracuse Police Department is investigating a "suspicious incident" in the area of Montgomery Street and East Water Street on Monday, Sept. 29, 2025. (CNY Central, File)
14
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
CRIME
SEXUAL VIOLENCE
RAPE
POLICE REFORM
MAYOR WALSH
CRIME STATISTICS
COMMUNITY SAFETY

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — According to data from the city's latest COMPSTAT (comparative statistics) report, homicides in the city of Syracuse are down nearly 41% compared to 2024. Violent crime on the whole is down 19%, with 909 reported incidents compared to 1122.

This continues the general downward trend in average crime rates since 2020. Citywide, violent crime and property crime are down 23.7% compared to 2024, and 8.5% over the last 5 years.

At the final community briefing of his tenure, Mayor Ben Walsh lauded the successes of the Syracuse Police Department, which he says were underwritten by Albany and Washington, DC. When the COVID-19 pandemic set in, "the world turned upside down, and crime numbers skyrocketed here and everywhere else," Walsh says. "Those were some really tough years. But if it wasn't for that time, I don't know that we would have seen the same amount of state and federal resources that have been invested here, which has been critical."

Walsh made an oblique reference to the Black Lives Matter uprisings of 2020, as well as the demilitarization and decarceration initiatives championed by many activists. "While Mayor-elect Owens and I both embraced the police reform movement, and looked at it as an opportunity to make our police department better, we never did it at the expense of the department or its officers-- we never stopped investing in the department... It is gratifying to see that those investments and those efforts are producing results, but if I've learned one thing over the past 8 years, [it's that] you cannot rest on your laurels, you cannot let your guard down."

The decreases in average crime rates belie increases in some categories and areas. In the Southeast District-- which includes the Valley, the University Hill, and the Meadowbrook neighborhood-- there were 23 rapes reported in 2025, compared to 19 in 2024. While the Southwest District experienced a percentage increase that was marginally higher (21.4%, as opposed to 21.1% in the Southeast), the Southwest saw only 3 more rape cases compared to the previous year, for a smaller total of 17.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

The Southeast District is also the only sector of the city where rape cases are on an upward 5-year trend. Since 2020, rape reports in that region have increased by 38.6%, while they're down everywhere else. The Southeast has driven a 1% increase in citywide rape cases over the last 5 years, singlehandedly.

In Syracuse's third district, the Northside, rapes were down 27.1% over 2024-- but the total number of 35 is higher than in any other area. Over the last 5 years, cases have decreased in the Northern District, but just by 2.2%.

READ THE COMMENTS (14)

"We still understand that there are many people in this community that don't feel safe in their neighborhood or in their home, and so the work is never done," Walsh says. But he's confident that incoming Mayor Sharon Owens, his deputy over the last 8 years, will remain committed to that work.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
10 Things I Wish People Knew About Lupus
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Drone drops knives, drugs and cell phone inside fence at Marcy Correctional Facility
Breathalyzer company under security breach; cars unable to move
Victim shot in parking lot outside of Destiny USA dies
Contractor charged for not completing work he was paid to do
Chuck Norris passes away at age 86
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.