By
Greta Stuckey | gstuckey@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse University has appointed a U.S. Coast Guard veteran as its new chief of campus safety and emergency services management.
Michael J. Bunker, of Denver will start the role on July 1, university officials announced this week.
Bunker is replacing Craig Stone, who recently announced that after 40 years in law enforcement, he would retire at the end of July.
Bunker has
held positions in campus safety at the University of Denver and Georgetown University. In his most recent role, he served as the chief of campus safety at the University of Denver. There, he oversaw all safety and security operations, creating new initiatives for campus safety.
At Denver, he focused on student wellbeing by creating a mental health campus response team, officials said in a news release. He also had campus police wear body cameras and used artificial intelligence-enhanced security systems.
He built relationships with student groups and athletic teams by holding dinners and meeting with students, officials said.
“His innovative leadership, commitment to contemporary safety practices and deep understanding of the evolving needs of campus communities make him uniquely qualified for this critically important role,” said Allen Groves, the SU senior vice president for the student experience in the news release.
Before working in campus safety, Bunker held positions with the Falls Church Police Department in Virginia and served 14 years in the U.S. Coast Guard where he was a boat coxswain and law enforcement officer.
He has two master’s degrees, including an MBA from the University of Denver and a master’s degree in project management from Georgetown University. He also has a graduate certificate in executive leadership coaching.
Bunker will be moving from Denver to Central New York in June.
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week
Binge ‘Someone’s Hunting Us,’ a podcast about a serial killer and the women who took him down
Onondaga Community College briefly locked down; student found with paintball gun
Several departments battle large house fire in Cayuga County
An Upstate NY corrections officer claimed $70K in injuries, but surveillance cameras told a different story
Staff writer Greta Stuckey covers breaking news. Have a tip, a story idea, a question or a comment? You can reach her at
gstuckey@syracuse.com
.
Greta Stuckey
Greta Stuckey joined Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard in November 2024 as a crime and public safety reporter. She covers topics including crime, politics and the occasional human-interest story. Before joining...
more
gstuckey@syracuse.com