Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

Audit reveals failures in Walsh administration's payroll modernization project

by Matt Mulcahy

Thu, June 12, 2025 at 9:47 PM
Updated Thu, June 12, 2025 at 9:58 PM
00:01
00:00
Syracuse Common Council discusses Payroll Modernization audit. (Photo: CNYCentral)
3
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
AUDIT
PAYROLL MODERNIZATION
WALSH ADMINISTRATION
OVERSIGHT
IT PROJECTS
WAIVERS
SYRACUSE
MAYOR WALSH

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — A long-awaited audit of the Walsh administration's payroll modernization project has been released, revealing significant issues with the initiative that cost the city over $8 million in the past five years. The 36-page report highlights an overreliance on waivers for companies doing business with the city and calls for improved oversight and control over large IT projects.

The audit was discussed in a special council meeting, shedding light on the project's shortcomings, particularly since last October when a whistleblower exposed internal problems. "A lot of our employees still get a paper check. Some get ACH at that time we could not paper checks out of the system," Finance Commissioner Michale Cannizzaro said.

Mayor Walsh acknowledged the city's unpreparedness, stating, "It was my determination along with feedback from others that we weren't ready," Mayor Ben Walsh said.

The report, delivered to the Common Council and the mayor, described the waivers as "unusual" but not in violation of the city's procurement policy. This conclusion was reached after a thorough review of documents, meeting videos, and interviews with city staff. However, two former staffers, Frank Caliva and Kelsey May, declined interview requests. They were key figures in the payroll modernization effort and engagement with outside consultants.

Mayor Walsh responded to the absence of an interview with Caliva and May in the audit. "Obviously they don't work for the city anymore. I can't tell them what to do. I've said from the beginning I want to be transparent we have nothing to hide. It would have been ideal to have their input, but it was their decision."

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Frank Caliva left City Hall in January, and shortly after, the mayor ended the city's relationship with global consultant EY. Despite this, EY is still requesting payment for work it claims to have delivered. Councilor Amir Gethers expressed surprise at this development. "I was surprised. I was surprised there some deliverables unpaid, and back pay determined whether they get paid or not," Councilor Amir Gethers said.

The mayor acknowledged that redactions in the draft report include areas potentially in dispute with EY and specifics about cybersecurity that the administration says could leave their systems vulnerable.

READ THE COMMENTS (3)

Past coverage of I-Team stories on the City Contracts and Payroll Modernization.




  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Asbestos Exposure Can Haunt You Years Later
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.