By
George Owens | gowens@syracuse.com
The city of Syracuse is on a
list of more than 500 “sanctuary jurisdictions”
released on Thursday that the Trump administration says are “deliberately obstructing the enforcement of federal immigration laws and endangering American citizens.”
The list, released by the Department of Homeland Security, is in response to
an executive order
issued by President Donald Trump in April dealing with immigration enforcement.
The list includes a dozen cities located in New York state, as well as 15 counties and the state of New York itself.
According to
the announcement
from the DHS, each jurisdiction listed will receive formal notification of its non-compliance and all potential violations of federal criminal statutes. The DHS “demands that these jurisdictions immediately review and revise their policies to align with federal immigration laws and renew their obligation to protect American citizens, not dangerous illegal aliens.”
Thursday’s announcement did not specify what penalties that the jurisdictions may face, but a
White House fact sheet
about the order stated that “jurisdictions that do not comply with federal law may lose federal funding.”
“These sanctuary city politicians are endangering Americans and our law enforcement in order to protect violent criminal illegal aliens,”
DHS Secretary Kristi Noem said
. “We are exposing these sanctuary politicians who harbor criminal illegal aliens and defy federal law. President Trump and I will always put the safety of the American people first. Sanctuary politicians are on notice: comply with federal law.”
Former Mayor
Stephanie Miner declared Syracuse a sanctuary city
in 2017. Miner’s successor, Ben Walsh, said in 2018
he wouldn’t change the city’s immigration enforcement policies
, but would not call Syracuse a sanctuary city.
In January,
Onondaga County Sheriff Toby Shelley said
his office would not comply with ICE requests to detain undocumented immigrants. He said the policy had been in effect since he became sheriff in 2023, and complies with the Fourth Amendment’s protection against unreasonable search and seizure.
“I took an oath to protect people’s constitutional rights,” Shelley said at the time. “Everything this sheriff’s office does is going to be legal. We’re not going to hold anyone illegally.”
In January,
Walsh released a statement
saying that “Syracuse has been and always will be a welcoming city and proud refugee and immigrant resettlement community. The Syracuse Police Department does not enforce federal immigration law, but we do support federal efforts to remove violent criminals from our streets.”
In April, the Trump administration
filed suit against the city of Rochester
over its sanctuary city policies, and “border czar” Tom Homan visited the city and met with police officers there.
NY state places on DHS list of ‘sanctuary jurisdictions’
State:
Self-Identification as a State Sanctuary Jurisdiction
Counties:
Albany County, Dutchess County, Monroe County, Orange County, Putnam County, Rockland County, Saratoga County, Suffolk County, Sullivan County, Tompkins County, Ulster County, Warren County, Wayne County, Westchester County, Yates County
Cities:
Albany, Beacon, East Hampton, Hudson, Ithaca, Kingston, New Paltz, New York City, Newburgh, Poughkeepsie, Rochester, Syracuse
George Owens
George Owens is a journalist and social media producer for syracuse.com | The Post-Standard and Advance Media New York. He has more than three decades of experience as a reporter, editor, page designer,...
more
gowens@syracuse.com