Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

Report finds Syracuse lead paint ordinance may not be preventing poisoning cases in kids

by Conor Wight

Fri, June 6, 2025 at 5:53 PM
A home on Syracuse's near westside that was flagged for repeated lead paint violations (Photo by CNY Central)
9
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
LEAD PAINT
POISONING
ORDINANCE
VIOLATIONS
ENFORCEMENT
RENTAL PROPERTIES
HEALTH DEPARTMENT

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The City of Syracuse has issued thousands of citations in recent years for lead paint violations; a recent study suggests that the citations aren't translating to prevention, with the number of poisoned children remaining stagnant.

Local activists with Families for Lead Freedom Now worked with Earthjustice to compile a report called "Falling through the Cracks," which utilizes data the group said they obtained using public records requests.

Eathjustice Associate Attorney Marissa Lieberman-Klein explained that she was interested in seeing how Syracuse's lead ordinance was functioning after it took full effect in 2022. The law, originally passed in 2020 and delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic, effectively gave city code enforcement the teeth to start trying to proactively identify lead paint in rental properties. The ordinance makes lead paint a code violation, meaning it must be corrected in order to achieve a rental license.

Lieberman-Klein and her team ultimately found that far too many properties appeared to be falling through the cracks in that system. The report states that many properties were getting cited multiple times in a short period of time, meaning landlords were not being held accountable for failing to put in long term fixes; the report also highlighted the fact that more than half of city properties are not on the city's rental registry, meaning they are not proactively evaluated by code enforcement.

"The city will cite, there will be a violation, and the landlord will remediate but then they won't do a follow up because no one's looking," Lieberman-Klein said.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Families for Lead Freedom Now leader, Oceanna Fair, said that the report confirmed what her organization had seen anecdotally.

"We're still poisoning about the same amount of children because a ordinance is only as good as the enforcement behind it," Fair said, "it's not working as well as it could be working."

Syracuse finds thousands of lead paint violations in year one of enforcement

Syracuse Code Enforcement Deputy Commissioner Jake DiShaw said that he read the report. He said that the ordinance is still in its infancy, believing that data over a longer period of time will show that the spike in citations will result in real change. He noted that his team have issued more than seven thousand violations since 2022 in properties that otherwise might have been completely overlooked based on the old system of relying on tenants or landlords themselves to flag a problem.

"One child poisoning is too many in our community, we know there's a lot of work ahead of us," DiShaw said.

Melanie Drotar, a spokesperson for the Onondaga County Health Department, said that the increase in violations on their end is due in part to "enhanced" efforts on behalf of the health department to tackle the problem. She listed recent initiatives including the expansion of contractor training to become EPA-certified to remediate lead and winning additional funding from New York state to proactively remediate.

"All of these efforts will lead to even shorter remediation times as we continue to grow and enhance the numerous remediation programs we administer," the statement reads in part, "We remain committed to preventing childhood lead poisoning and protecting public health in our community. We will continue working with our partners to address lead hazards and support affected families."

Drotar said that health department officials are reviewing the report's findings.

The study ultimately stresses the need for Syracuse to get all rental properties on the rental registry and finding ways to enforce "more serious penalties" against repeat offenders.

READ THE COMMENTS (9)

DiShaw said that efforts to issue warrants for landlords that attempt to block inspections may start to slow given city budget cuts. He said that the city's legal office will take a hit without the ability to hire outside counsel to handle certain legal matters, meaning code enforcement related problems may go on the backburner.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.