By
Greta Stuckey | gstuckey@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Drivers in Syracuse will soon face $50 fines for speeding in school zones and running red lights as the city rolls out new traffic cameras ahead of the school year.
The city plans to have the cameras installed
in school zones at Syracuse city schools, a total of 34 locations, said Sol Muñoz, a spokesperson for City Hall.
The speed limit in school zones is 10 mph below the existing limit. Almost all are posted at 20 mph, except for a couple of exceptions where the speed limit is 25 mph, Muñoz said.
Drivers face a $50 fine for each violation.
This could cost drivers in Syracuse a lot of money.
When Albany put in similar speed cameras last year in school zones, they issued more than 13,000 tickets in the first 11 days of the program, according to
News10 ABC
. In six months, the city issued tickets
totaling $3.24 million
.
If Syracuse was to give out the same number of tickets in the first 11 days, they would collect around $650,000.
Cameras will be placed at up to 36 intersections near school zones to catch people going through red lights.
The speed cameras in school zones will only be on during posted school hours, but red-light cameras will run all the time, Muñoz said.
A $25 late penalty will be added for unpaid tickets. The goal, officials said, is to reduce speeding and reckless driving near schools and improve pedestrian safety.
The cameras are expected to be up and running by the start of the new school year, Muñoz said.
The schools open Sept. 3.
The first stage of the program focuses on the Syracuse City School District. Future sites, including other school locations, will be considered for expansion, she said.
The city will get 65% of the fines while 35% will go to the private technology company Jenoptik installing the cameras.
Here are the locations of the cameras
School speed-zone cameras:
Lemoyne Ave. – Montessori School
Grant Blvd. – Grant Middle School
Wadsworth St. – Webster Elementary School
Durston Ave. – Salem Hyde Elementary School
James St. – Lincoln Middle School
Stafford Ave. – Huntington K–8 School
Teall Ave. – Henninger High School
Oak St. – Dr. Weeks Elementary School
Butternut St. – Franklin Elementary School
S. Salina St. – Meachem Elementary School
S. Salina St. – Clary Middle School
Valley Dr. – Van Duyn Elementary School
McNewell St. – McKinley-Brighton School
W. Brighton Ave. – Danforth Middle School
State St. – Frazer K–8 School
S.
Geddes St. – Corcoran High School
W. Kennedy St. – Bellevue Elementary School
S. State St. – Beard-McCarthy School
S. Salina St. – Dr. King STEAM School
Shonnard St. – Institute of Technology at Syracuse Central (ITC High School)
W. Genesee St. – Seymour Dual Language Academy
W. Genesee St. – Fowler High School
W. Genesee St. – Porter Elementary School
E. Colvin St. – Syracuse Latin School
Salt Springs Rd. – HW Smith PreK–8 School
E. Genesee St. – Nottingham High School
James St. – Blessed Sacrament School
School Zone Red-Light Camera Locations:
Wadsworth St. & Lemoyne Ave.
Wadsworth St. & Grant Blvd.
Teall Ave. & Gray Ave.
Grant Blvd. & McChesney Ave.
Grant Blvd. & Pond St. / McChesney Park
James St. & Teall Ave.
James St. & Midler Ave.
Sunnycrest Rd. & Midler Ave.
Teall Ave. & Robinson St.
Butternut St. & Alvord St.
Wadsworth St. & Cadillac St.
West St. & Shonnard St.
Adams St. & Warren St.
Townsend St. & E Genesee St.
Geddes St. & Park Ave.
Geddes St. & Onondaga Ave.
Glenwood Ave. & S Salina St.
S. Salina St. & Elmhurst Ave,
S. Salina St. & W Kennedy St.
S. Salina St. & Martin Luther King East
Valley Dr. & Fish Ave.
Valley Dr. & Seneca Turnpike
S Salina St. & Amidon Dr.
S Salina St. & Spaulding Ave.
S Salina St. & Newell St.
E Brighton Ave. & Midland Ave.
E Colvin St. & Comstock Ave.
E Genesee St. & East Ave.
E Genesee St. & Croly St. / Salt Springs Rd.
Geddes St. & Standart Ave.
James St. & Wilson Ave
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week
Binge ‘Someone’s Hunting Us,’ a podcast about a serial killer and the women who took him down
Onondaga Community College briefly locked down; student found with paintball gun
Several departments battle large house fire in Cayuga County
An Upstate NY corrections officer claimed $70K in injuries, but surveillance cameras told a different story
Staff writer Greta Stuckey covers breaking news. Have a tip, a story idea, a question or a comment? You can reach her at
gstuckey@syracuse.com
.
Greta Stuckey
Greta Stuckey joined Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard in November 2024 as a crime and public safety reporter. She covers topics including crime, politics and the occasional human-interest story. Before joining...
more
gstuckey@syracuse.com