The New York state Senate meets in the Senate Chamber on the opening day of the legislative session at the state Capitol in Albany, N.Y., on Jan. 8, 2020. (Hans Pennink | AP)
AP
By
Your Letters
To the Editor:
Central New Yorkers are touched by local governments’ actions every single day: picking up trash and yard waste, plowing snow, keeping us safe with police and fire protection, and delivering clean drinking water are just a few of the everyday accomplishments that fly under the radar but are crucial to keeping our communities running. Local governments have new challenges to navigate as well — addressing the challenges of a changing climate, increased threats to our cyber security, or finding new ways to be an employer of choice in the region.
New York state must be a partner in this work. That’s why this year’s state Senate budget includes a small but critical proposal: a new commission to redesign the formula by which the state provides funding to cities. This is critically important to local governments across New York and it’s our hope this will be included in the final budget.
Why should a commission, tucked into a budget proposal, to rewrite an arcane formula, matter to most people? Because local governments are heavily reliant on state aid to fund their budgets. In the case of the city of Syracuse, state aid (known as AIM, or Aid and Incentives for Municipalities) represents the second-largest source of revenue behind sales taxes. It’s larger than property taxes and dwarfs nearly all other streams of revenue.
AIM was created by Gov. George Pataki in 2006, combining several sources of unrestricted aid. It was designed to increase annually so long as local governments met certain thresholds, such as keeping property taxes low. Gov. Andrew Cuomo cut AIM and froze it permanently in 2012, meaning promised growth did not happen. Last year, Gov. Kathy Hochul agreed to a $50 million infusion — $5 million of which came to Syracuse. That’s welcomed, but we need it to be a down payment on the future of aid to localities.
In that time, the cost of running a modern American city has increased. That’s not reckless spending, but expected increases in employee salaries and benefits, increases in the cost of materials for infrastructure projects, and in response to a higher interest rate environment beyond our control. A property tax cap imposed by the state did not come with corresponding mandate relief and our region’s largest industries — hospitals and higher education institutions — have growing portfolios of property and do not pay property taxes.
We do more with less every day. Syracuse has well-documented challenges, but so do Buffalo, Oswego, Utica, Fulton and other communities across New York. Cities cannot keep choosing between raising property taxes on an ever-smaller base of taxpayers and spending down reserves. That is not a sustainable model and is exactly why we need New York state to step in.
This commission would take the lead on this much-needed intervention. We hope they will consider the challenges and opportunities facing cities today. The AIM formula should support the constantly changing challenges faced by cities, including the proliferation of state-owned and tax-exempt properties. It should reward good choices by local governments — investing in housing, infrastructure and keeping taxes low.
The fiscal cliff is not imminent here in Syracuse — but attention is necessary now. This is the right time to enact this provision and revisit the AIM formula. When communities receive the support they need from New York state, we’ll have a stronger and more sustainable future for our cities.
Sen. Christopher J. Ryan
D-Geddes
50th Senate District
Chair of Cities 2 Committee
Alexander Marion
City Auditor
Syracuse
Tom Moran: It’s not just self-defense in Gaza. It’s ethnic cleansing.
$13.5 million in taxpayer money to ban cellphones in schools? (Your Letters)
To protect Great Lakes economic engine, save research funding (Guest Opinion by Nicholas Sard)
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.