By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. -- Most times, when city lawyers advise the Common Council to settle a lawsuit, councilors settle. Paying to settle a case avoids the risk of even greater costs after a trial. And it stops the meter on lawyer fees.
But a few members of the Syracuse Common Council stepped in last October to block a proposed $825,000 settlement on behalf of Syracuse Police Officer Kelsey Francemone. The officer was sued after she fatally shot a man during a chaotic flurry of gunfire at a crowded outdoor event in 2016.
Keep Watching
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
Councilor Pat Hogan, who led opposition to the settlement, said it was a “moral’’ decision to vote against it. Hogan said he wanted to stand behind Francemone, a young cop who ran toward the sound of gunshots as a screaming throng of people fled in the other direction.
“That officer acted in an incredibly heroic manner,’’ Hogan said.
The lawsuit, which wrapped up last week in federal court, ended with a
verdict of just $10,000
to be paid by the city.
And even that small award could be nullified if a judge rules that Francemone was covered by the doctrine of “qualified immunity’’ which protects officers from individual liability.
The outcome of the trial made the decision not to settle look like a slam dunk. But officials in Mayor Ben Walsh’s office say it’s not that simple.
The city is on the hook for “a minimum of $300,000’’ in legal fees that have piled up since the settlement was rejected in October, said Greg Loh, the city’s chief policy officer. Those bills from private law firm Hancock Estabrook, which represented Francemone, have not been finalized yet.
Loh said there is a risk the legal fees could grow to more than $500,000 if the outcome is appealed. And if the court forces the city to pay the plaintiff’s legal fees, that could add “hundreds of thousands of dollars’’ to the final cost, Loh said.
In a 2023 lawsuit accusing Syracuse police of false arrest, for example, a $5,001 verdict against the city was dwarfed by the plaintiffs’ $141,000 legal bill, which the city also paid.
“Given the great uncertainty, the council’s decision to reject the proposed settlement was misguided,’’ Loh said.
Hogan, who is running for mayor this year, said he thinks city officials have been too quick to settle some lawsuits. He did not offer specific examples. But he expressed the belief that settlements encourage more lawsuits by making litigation look like a sure route to payday.
“I think we should fight, especially lawsuits that were brought like this, when our people were acting in the correct manner,’’ he said.
A majority of five city councilors voted to approve the $825,000 settlement of Francemone’s case. But Hogan and two colleagues – Councilors Amir Gethers and Jimmy Monto –
blocked the deal
by refusing to approve a bond sale to raise the money. Bond approvals require at least six votes and, with one councilor absent, the measure fell one vote short.
The proposed settlement was rejected even though Police Chief Joe Cecile supported it after consulting with Francemone.
“After talking with Officer Francemone and hearing her anxiety with reliving the case again, he supported the proposed settlement,’’ Loh said.
Francemone was sued in 2019 by Tanajee Maddox, the daughter of Gary T. Porter. Francemone shot and killed Porter, 41, during a chaotic melee three years earlier.
The officer was responding to gunfire that erupted during a large Father’s Day celebration in 2016 at the James Geddes public housing complex on the city‘s Near West Side. Hundreds of people were there.
About an hour into her shift, and less than two years into her career on the force, Francemone responded at around 11:10 p.m. to a call for a “person down.” That call was determined to be unfounded.
Soon after arriving, however, Francemone heard gunfire. Officials would later say at least 37 shots were fired that day.
People at the barbecue began stampeding away from the shots, creating a chaotic scene. Francemone, who was by herself, ran toward the gunfire.
She testified during the trial that she shot Porter as he ran away and pointed a gun at her, firing at least once. Another witness disputed that account, saying Porter never shot and was instead trying to take cover and shouting for others to stop.
The jury in federal court decided that Francemone used excessive force. However, the jury also made determinations that could result in their verdict being overturned, according to Chief U.S. District Judge Brenda Sannes, who presided over the trial.
The jury concluded that Porter had a gun at some point during the incident; that Francemone believed Porter was one of several people firing a gun; and that she had a reasonable belief that Porter had a gun on him before she fired her final shots at him.
Those findings could result in Sannes ruling that Francemone’s actions were covered by qualified immunity, which protects government officials, including police, from liability for actions they take as part of their job.
Sannes has yet to rule. If she invokes qualified immunity – as she has hinted she will – that would negate the $10,000 award for damages and would relieve the city of any obligation to pay the plaintiff’s legal fees.
Francemone was previously cleared by a grand jury of any wrongdoing in the shooting. State officials named her “officer of the year’’ in 2017.
Excessive force verdict in fatal shooting by Syracuse cop seen as compromise by jury
Years later, jury to decide whether Syracuse officer was right or wrong to fatally shoot man at Father’s Day party
Syracuse lawmakers delay vote on $825K settlement in fatal shooting by police officer
Officer who fired in Father’s Day riot describes ‘dogpile,’ worst moment in fracas
DA: Syracuse cop running toward shots at Father’s Day party ‘bravest thing I’ve ever seen’
Staff writer Tim Knauss can be reached at:
email
|
Twitter
| 315-470-3023.
Tim Knauss
Tim Knauss is a watchdog reporter on the public affairs team at Syracuse.com, with four decades of experience covering Central New York. Knauss has written about a variety of subjects recently including unfair...
more
tknauss@syracuse.com