By
Darian Stevenson | DStevenson@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — A Syracuse man police say was selling drugs outside of a convenience store was taken down and tased more than once as he was arrested.
On April 9, Tashawn Albert, 37, was inside Stop and Shop at of 1012 Park St. in Syracuse when he was arrested for possessing a small amount of cocaine,
obstruction of governmental administration and resisting arrest, all misdemeanors.
Albert has filed a complaint with the Syracuse Civilian Review Board over the arrest, alleging police used too much force arresting him.
Two videos shared with Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard by Albert show the arrest. One was the store’s video and the other was by a bystander.
Officers approach Albert and place his hands behind his back. A second officer walks over and Albert is taken to the ground.
Albert struggles with the officers as they try to arrest him. One officer stands and tases Albert, causing him to squirm back and forth. Albert can be heard screaming.
Albert stands back up before he was taken to the ground again. About six more officers arrive on scene and swarm around
Albert. The officers get handcuffs on Albert.
Officers search Albert and remove several items from him before they stand him up and take him out of the store.
Kieran Coffey, a spokesperson for the Syracuse Police Department, said an officer deployed a taser to subdue Albert.
Albert was taken to the ground where, Coffey said, officers tried to get Albert to release his hands. The officers said Albert kept reaching for his waist band.
Coffey said the officers used “regular techniques” to get Albert to release his hands.
Coffey said officers monitoring the area spotted Albert at the corner of Park and East Division streets. Albert was seen doing a hand-to-hand transaction — a drug deal, he said.
Coffey said officers followed Albert into the store to question him. Albert walked to the back of the store where the officers attempted to arrest him, he said.
Albert was later taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital for an evaluation, he said.
The arrest, as in the case of all use of force incidents, is being thoroughly investigated by the department, Coffey said.
In a complaint filed to the Citizen Review Board, Albert said he was beat and badly injured from the incident. The board reviews grievances involving members of the Syracuse Police Department
Albert was standing outside the store, smoking a cigarette, before he went inside the store to grab items for his fiancé, according to the complaint. Officers came behind him and grabbed him, he said.
Albert said he asked the officers why he was under arrest, but they wouldn’t say why. He was later told it was part of an investigation, he said.
Albert said he was forced to the ground by two police officers. He was punched in the head and kicked multiple times, he said.
Albert said he screamed for some of his friends in the store to call his fiancé.
Officers told Albert to stop resisting, but Albert said he was complying with the officers. Then an officer attempted to tase Albert, but his coat got in the way, Albert said. The officer raised his coat and tased his bare skin, he said.
Albert said he suffered a fractured disc in his spine, a broken tooth, a black eye, multiple knots on his head, bruising on his face and multiple scars from being tased.
After searching Albert, Coffee said officers found 3.3 grams of cocaine.
Albert was charged with seventh-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance, second-degree obstruction of governmental administration and resisting arrest.
Albert has served time in federal prison for selling drugs. He was sentenced to 11 months after facing life in federal prison before cutting a deal in exchange for testifying in a
murder trial
in 2014.
Albert said he wasn’t selling drugs outside the store and that he does have a criminal past, but that he is trying to grow from it.
“Don’t go off my past, people change their lives,” Albert said. “That’s no excuse to attack me like that.”
Tashawn Albert, 37, was inside Stop and Shop at 1012 Park St. in Syracuse when he was arrested for possessing cocaine and resisting arrest, April 9, 2025.
Tashawn Albert
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week
Binge ‘Someone’s Hunting Us,’ a podcast about a serial killer and the women who took him down
Onondaga Community College briefly locked down; student found with paintball gun
Several departments battle large house fire in Cayuga County
An Upstate NY corrections officer claimed $70K in injuries, but surveillance cameras told a different story
Staff writer Darian Stevenson covers breaking news, crime and public safety. Have a tip, a story idea, a question or a comment? You can reach her at
dstevenson@syracuse.com
Darian Stevenson
Darian Stevenson is a breaking news reporter for Syracuse.com, covering crime, public safety, and fast-moving stories across Central New York. She’s especially focused on reporting that highlights and impacts...
more
DStevenson@syracuse.com