By
Mark Weiner | mweiner@syracuse.com
The
massive bill passed by House Republicans
to enact President Donald Trump’s domestic agenda cancels a $30 million grant for Syracuse to revitalize one of the city’s poorest neighborhoods.
Syracuse
won the competitive grant
from the Federal Highway Administration last year to kick-start the biggest transformation of a neighborhood in the city’s modern history.
The money would help Syracuse build a new neighborhood that would rise when
Interstate 81
is torn down and replaced by a street-level boulevard.
The grant would pay for new streets, parks, bike paths, lighting, sidewalks, trees and recreation areas – the infrastructure needed for a project to replace public housing with market-rate and affordable homes as part of a 10-year redevelopment plan.
But now House Republicans have voted to cancel all unspent grants from the $3.3 billion
Neighborhood Access and Equity Program
.
The language canceling the program was included in a single paragraph on page 724 of the
1,116-page bill
, officially named the “One Big Beautiful Bill Act.”
House Republicans, who passed the final bill 215-214 in the middle of the night May 22, said the remaining money in the program would be “permanently rescinded.”
The program – established by Congress in 2022 and signed into law by former President Joe Biden – aims to help rebuild disadvantaged or underserved communities that have been torn apart by interstate highways.
GOP leaders said they want to take back more than $2 billion worth of grants that had been awarded but not fully spent through the program. The savings would be used to meet their broader goal of reducing the federal deficit.
The bill now moves to the Republican-controlled Senate, where Syracuse officials and advocates for the grant program say they will push to have the funding restored.
U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., the Senate Democratic leader, said he will try to work with Republicans to take out the cutbacks in the Senate version of the bill.
“The idea of clawing back grant money for Syracuse’s I-81 project to pay for Trump’s tax cuts is outrageous,” Schumer said in a statement. “It is taking money out from Central New Yorkers’ pockets to pay for tax breaks for billionaires, and everyone should be angry about this.”
Syracuse and New York state beat out more than 500 other communities last year to win a combined $180 million grant from the Neighborhood Access and Equity Program.
The state Department of Transportation completed the necessary steps to secure its $150 million share of the grant.
But Syracuse received only $300,000 of its $30 million grant, pending environmental reviews. The city is required by federal law to complete designs and a study of potential environmental impacts before it could access the remaining money, said Greg Loh, Syracuse’s chief policy officer.
The study, required by the National Environmental Policy Act, has not yet started, Loh said. It is expected to take up to two years to complete.
Loh said that Syracuse city officials plan to seek support from Republicans and Democrats in Congress to restore the funding in any final bill negotiated between the House and Senate.
Separately, the nonprofit group Transportation for America said it will advocate for the program with Republican senators whose states would see projects canceled if the funding is cut off.
About $1 billion of funding is at risk in red or purple states, said Corrigan Salerno, policy manager for Transportation for America.
“There’s a demonstrated need for these projects,” Salerno said. “It’s shortsighted to cut them off, considering the economic needs of these communities.”
Federal judge refuses to pause ruling that Sarcone is unlawfully serving as top prosecutor in Upstate NY
Job losses in Syracuse and Upstate NY reveal depth of Trump’s slashing of federal workforce
Judges fire Trump loyalist who was top federal prosecutor in Upstate NY; SU alum appointed to replace him
Sarcone changes job title again amid challenge to his job as top federal prosecutor in Upstate NY
After 3 days in Minneapolis, a Syracuse minister is inspired: ‘We need to ramp up’
Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact Mark Weiner at 571-970-3751.
Mark Weiner
Mark Weiner is the Washington correspondent for Syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. He has four decades of experience reporting on issues important to Central New York. You can reach him at 571-970-3751.
mweiner@syracuse.com