By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — A developer’s plan to convert a shuttered fire station on Syracuse’s Near East Side into a ground-level restaurant with four apartments above can move forward.
The Syracuse Common Council on Monday authorized the sale of the former Syracuse Fire Department Station 7 to
JF Real Estate
for $900,000. The company responded to a request for proposals the city
issued in February
seeking redevelopment of the former station at 1039 E. Fayette St., which closed in 2013 during former Mayor Stephanie Miner’s administration.
JF has proposed a $2.5 million project. When Mayor Ben Walsh’s administration
first requested
the council’s approval in June, the council said they wanted to ensure the city had a viable path to building a new fire station in that area in the future. The Near East Side has experienced significant residential growth with the construction of several massive student rental apartment buildings in recent years.
Fire Chief Michael Monds has said the city owns some parcels on University Avenue between East Fayette and Erie Boulevard that could work as a future station site. The old Station 7, built more than 70 years ago, is no longer feasible as a structure to house fire engines.
Councilors also wanted to make sure that residents of the neighboring Welch Terrace apartments were comfortable with the project, Councilor Pat Hogan said Monday. City officials have recently met with the residents and they are on board.
The Walsh administration has touted the project as a good fit for the redevelopment of the corridor between downtown and the University Hill area as the Interstate 81 viaduct comes down.
Closing on the sale of Station 7 will take about nine to 12 months, with construction taking about a year to complete, city officials have said.
On the left, new apartment buildings with hundreds of units have opened along Syracuse's East Fayette Street within blocks of the shuttered Syracuse Fire Department Station 7 building. (Jeremy Boyer I JBoyer@syracuse.com)
Jeremy Boyer I JBoyer@syracuse.com
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com