By
Douglass Dowty | ddowty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, NY – Syracuse fell far short of its promise to remove 3,000 dangerous lead water pipes this year. Instead, it replaced only 700 of the lines that bring drinking water into homes.
That failure has led the city to lower its sights to only 1,700 replacements next year.
The slower pace will mean that it could take a decade or longer to replace all of the city’s known lead pipes going into homes. The city had
previously promised it could
fix the problem in five years.
“That was our goal,” said water commissioner Robert Brandt last week. “Unfortunately, things don’t move as fast as we’d like.”
This year’s slower-than-expected pace will lead to another federal violation against the city for not replacing a minimum of 1,500 pipes this year. That means every city residence will get another notice soon about the dangers of lead in water that comes out of kitchen and bathroom sinks.
Still, the city says it’s learned from this year’s experience. For the first time in recent decades, it’s hired two contractors whose sole jobs are to replace the pipes. And the city already has identified which houses it’ll target in 2026 – ones that had a partial replacement two decades ago in some of the city’s poorer neighborhoods.
In the meantime, the city has also hired an engineering firm to develop a realistic strategy to do 14,000 replacements across the city, Brandt said.
In the short term, there’s a quick fix that’s proven effective: Residents in homes with old pipes should
run cold water out of faucets for a minute before using water each morning
, especially if it’s been six hours or longer since last used.
Typically, lead pipes are in homes built before the 1930s, though lead was not outlawed until the 1970s.
Syracuse water commissioner Robert Brandt stands in a conference room with examples of both lead piping (left center, by his hand) and copper piping (far right). Most lead piping was installed in Syracuse before the 1940s.
Douglass Dowty
The longer-term fix is more daunting and multi-faceted, the city’s water commissioner told syracuse.com | The Post-Standard this month.
Perhaps the biggest problem is that the city doesn’t know the full extent of the problem yet. It has roughly 14,000 known poisonous pipes going into homes and businesses. But it also has up to 13,000 others of unknown material. In the unlikely event all of those turned out to be lead, the city’s problem could be nearly twice as bad as currently known.
Brandt said he also better understands how time- and labor-intensive it is to replace water pipes in thousands of basements.
Each pipe is its own home improvement project, sometimes requiring punching a hole in a finished wall or gaining access from a vacationing homeowner, Brandt said. On the street side, water contractors must coordinate their digging with road and sidewalk construction projects, so they’re not ripping holes in freshly poured concrete, Brandt added.
Of all things, money isn’t an immediate concern: The city has bonded and received grants totaling tens of millions of dollars to cover the next phases of replacements.
While far short of replacing all the pipes -- which could cost $200 million -- there was enough money to do 3,000 water pipes this year, had the city been able to pull that off. Replacing each pipe costs as much as $15,000.
Brandt noted that 700 replacements were still far more than had been done in any other year in decades. But the water commissioner shared with syracuse.com his lessons learned from this year’s struggles and his promises for 2026.
Sizing up the problem
City officials scrambled in the summer 2024 after routine testing
showed dangerously high levels
of lead in more than two dozen homes. The city admitted the violation, which it later blamed on
two unscrupulous water employees
who took faulty samples.
But it spurred the city to do something the EPA is requiring soon anyway: Come up with a plan to replace all lead drinking water pipes across the city.
The biggest unknown is how many of these pipes exist. There are 14,000 known addresses with lead pipes. But another 13,000 pipes remain a big question mark.
The biggest cluster of these unknown pipes is in Eastwood, Brandt said. Because it wasn’t originally a part of Syracuse, that has left a big hole in the city’s data on a swath of neighborhood that runs from Midler Avenue to the west, Thompson Road to the east, Burnet Avenue to the south and the city line to the north, Brandt said. (More recent projects have dug into the portion of the neighborhood closer to Teall Avenue.)
The city has hired an engineering contractor, GHD, of DeWitt, to help figure out the extent of the problem. But it has also purchased its own vacuum truck, which will allow workers to tap into a pipe and figure out what material it’s made of, Brandt said.
If all of the city’s unknown pipes turn out to be lead, that could nearly double the city’s problem, putting the total number of lead pipes closer to 27,000 than the known 14,000 pipes. But Brandt said he expects the unknowns to be a mix of lead and copper.
Still, the problem will undoubtedly be bigger than what’s known now.
A hidden replacement headache
To understand the nuances of the city’s lead pipe problem, there’s a dirty little secret that needs airing: each pipe actually has two parts – a public segment and a private segment.
The public segment runs from the water main under roads
to a shutoff valve near the curb. The private segment runs from the shutoff valve into each house.
This year, the EPA only required the city to replace the part between the street and the curb. But Brandt thought that was short-sighted. By 2027, the EPA will require the city to do both sides anyway, he said.
So the water department is replacing both the private and public segments at each home.
EPA rules also allow the city to charge homeowners for replacing the private segments, Brandt said. The city didn’t do that either, instead footing the entire bill of $15,000 per complete water pipe.
Doing both segments meant overcoming two different sets of challenges, he said.
For the private segments, getting permission from hundreds of homeowners took far longer than expected, Brandt said. Sometimes, it took four or more visits to get someone to answer the door, provide access to the basement and approve the construction needed to replace the pipe, he said.
He recalled one homeowner with a collection of antique clocks in a finished basement. It took a lot of convincing to get permission to drill a hole in the drywall and run a new copper pipe into the street, Brandt said.
The public side had its challenges, too. Replacing those segments required ripping up holes in streets and potentially, sidewalks as well, Brandt said. While sometimes unavoidable, the water department tried to coordinate with public works to avoid ripping holes in streets that had recently been resurfaced.
Still, there were snafus, such as Westmoreland Avenue, where contractors poured new sidewalks only to have water contractors rip up numerous sections to reach water shut-off valves.
Across the city, there are roughly 14,000 properties with some documented lead pipe. When accounting for both private and public segments, there’s a total of more than 17,000 segments of lead pipe at those 14,000 properties, Brandt said.
Contracts moving forward
Brandt said there are several things that make him confident the team will replace 1,700 water pipes next year.
First of all, the upcoming contract is only for lead pipe replacements. Because of the scramble last year, the city had folded its lead-pipe program into existing contracts for other major water projects. Lead pipes weren’t the intended priority.
Going forward, the contracts are specifically for pipe replacements. And there’s a deadline of December 2026 to finish the work or face financial penalties, Brandt said.
The primary contractor, J.J. Lane, of Liverpool, was the contractor who did the vast majority of this year’s 700 replacements. They will use their experience to go faster next year, Brandt predicted. Another contractor, Nardozzi Companies, of Geneva, is doing a smaller number.
In addition, the city is focusing on 2,700 specific addresses in the next phase of replacements, Brandt said. Those homes were already targeted once, from 2005 to 2007, the last time the city had a violation for too much lead in drinking water.
Back then, the city did only what was required to fix the violation, leaving the private half of the lead pipe in the ground, Brandt said. The city will now go back to those same houses and replace the private segment, from the curb into each home, he said.
There are signed contracts to replace 1,708 specific water lines by December 2026, for a total price of $11.1 million, Brandt said. The remaining nearly 1,000 water lines in that phase will be bidded out for early 2027.
By reducing the scope of next year’s project, the city will free up time and resources to focus on designing a replacement program for the years ahead, Brandt said.
The water commissioner, who lives on Court Street, said that he understands those who accuse the city of ignoring some neighborhoods so far.
“If I didn’t work here, I’d believe the same thing,” Brandt said.
As for his water pipe? It’s lead, he said. “And as long as I work here, I’ll be the last one to get a new pipe,” he vowed.
NY’s top mental health official visits Upstate after story about abandoned kids who attack nurses
Free NY tuition for health care jobs is still available. Deadline almost here!
Manlius pediatrician appears before judge on 21 felonies as clues emerge on case ahead
NY state tries to curb deadly hazard in poor neighborhoods after Syracuse’s efforts falter
Manlius pediatrician now faces 21 felonies, accused of vaccine fraud to get her son into school
Douglass Dowty
I am the health reporter at Syracuse.com. I cover a range of topics, including public health, insurance, addiction, w