Mets play Billy Joel’s ‘We Didn’t Start the Fire’ as brush burns. Turns out they did start the fire - syracuse.com
Skip to Article
Mets play Billy Joel’s ‘We Didn’t Start the Fire’ as brush burns. Turns out they did start the fire
Updated: Jul. 25, 2025, 5:48 p.m.
|
Published: Jul. 25, 2025, 3:46 p.m.
Watch
Syracuse Mets play Billy Joel’s ‘We Didn’t Start the Fire’ as brush burns
By
Vince Gasparini | vgasparini@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. - As a brush fire burned just outside NBT Bank Stadium on Thursday night, staff played Billy Joel’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire” over the loudspeakers.
But they did start the fire.
The fire was started shortly after 9 p.m. by a fireworks show after the Syracuse Mets beat the Omaha Storm Chasers 6-2.
The fireworks were set off behind the outfield wall by railroad tracks that run by the stadium, Syracuse Mets General Manager Jason Smorol said Friday.
“It’s just dry back there,” he said. “Anything burning back there is just old brush.”
Smorol said this is the third fire that has happened out of about 300 fireworks shows the team has held in his 12-year tenure as general manager.
July has been hot and dry in Syracuse. So far this month, Syracuse has been 3 degrees hotter than normal with just 1.2 inches of rain, compared to a normal of 3.1 inches by now, according to the Northeast Regional Climate Center.
Tom Boll, who was at the stadium when the fire started, said he could see that some of the fireworks were still burning as they came down.
“You could see it start, and then the flames were shooting up a bit for a while,” he said.
Boll said some fans in attendance stayed to watch the fire even after the show ended, with some moving to higher seats in the stadium to get a better view.
“It was a little extra excitement that they didn’t plan,” he said.
RECOMMENDED
Man stabbed inside prominent Syracuse apartment building; 2nd stabbed near Rescue Mission
Mar. 20, 2026, 4:13 p.m.
American Airlines flight leaving Syracuse backs off ramp, gets stuck in the mud
Mar. 21, 2026, 12:42 p.m.
Once firefighters arrived, the fire was extinguished within minutes without any injuries or property damage, according to the Syracuse Fire Department.
A brush fire set off by fireworks burns outside the Met's NBT Bank Stadium in Syracuse on Thursday, July 24, 2025.
Connor Pignatello |cpignatello@syracuse.com
Staff writer Vince Gasparini covers breaking news, crime and public safety. Have a tip, a story idea, a question or a comment? You can reach him at
vgasparini@syracuse.com
.
Vince Gasparini
Vince Gasparini is a breaking news reporter at syracuse.com | The Post Standard, where he covers crime, public safety, weather and human-interest stories. He is a 2025 graduate from the University at Albany,...
more
vgasparini@syracuse.com
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
Tired of Pre-Mowing? Master Tall and Thick Grass Easily
Lymow
Learn More
Undo
by Taboola
Promoted Links