Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Police Chief: Officers will face discipline in viral South Avenue arrests

by Conor Wight, Matthew Benninger

Thu, April 10, 2025 at 5:45 PM
Updated Fri, April 11, 2025 at 8:50 AM
The officers involved in a forceful arrest of two people on South Avenue in Syracuse on April 9 will face discipline and be subject to retraining for violating procedure, Syracuse Police Chief Joseph Cecile announced Thursday.
31
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE POLICE
VIRAL VIDEO
SOUTH AVENUE
USE OF FORCE
DISCIPLINE
RETRAINING
ARRESTS
BODYCAM FOOTAGE

The officers involved in a forceful arrest of two people on South Avenue in Syracuse on April 9 will face discipline and be subject to retraining for violating procedure, Syracuse Police Chief Joseph Cecile announced Thursday.

A phone video of the arrest went viral on Facebook on the afternoon of April 9. The video showed officers talking to two men on the sidewalk in front of New Salem Baptist Church. One officer is seen taking one of the men to the ground and putting him in handcuffs.

Then another officer is seen punching the other man in the head and cuffing him. A review of the video shows seven officers on the scene.

Chief Cecile said officer bodycam footage revealed the policy violations. He noted that the investigation into the matter is not complete.

Cecile's full statement regarding the use of force is posted below:

Syracuse Police conducted an investigation of a use of force in connection with arrests made on Wednesday, April 9th, around 3:09 p.m., at the intersection of South Avenue and Bellevue Avenue. Full details regarding the incident are provided below. Although the full investigation is still not completed, the Body Worn Cameras revealed evidence of policy and procedure violations that will be dealt with by way of discipline and retraining.
On Wednesday, April 9th, around 3:09 p.m., Syracuse Police Officers stopped a vehicle at the intersection of South Avenue and Bellevue Avenue for vehicle and traffic violations. As they progressed with their investigation, Officers discovered that neither the driver nor the passenger in the vehicle had a valid drivers license. Due to this fact, Officers determined that the vehicle had to be towed. Per Department policy, Officers began taking an inventory.
At this time, both the driver, identified as 21-year-old Jaumar Chandler, and the passenger, identified as 22-year-old Antal Tatum, were free to walk around and use their cell phones. However, since they had not been searched for weapons, they were asked to keep their distance from the Officers. Both individuals continued to violate this message, and the driver continued to reach into his pockets. Chandler was asked multiple times to keep his hands visible – again because he had not been searched. After several commands to keep his hands visible, Officers placed him in handcuffs without force and sat him in the back of a patrol vehicle while the tickets and other paperwork were being processed and completed.
While in the patrol car, Chandler made multiple comments that he was going to "shoot the officer and spit on the officer." He also made derogatory comments about the Officer’s family members. After the paperwork was completed, Chandler was taken back out of the patrol car and his handcuffs were removed. It is at this time that he turned and spat in the direction of the Officer.
The Officer then proceeded to take Chandler to the ground and arrest him for harassment. Officers gave multiple verbal commands for Chandler to place his hands behind his back, which he refused to do. At this time, three controlled strikes were directed to his head and face in order to get him to lift his hands so Officers could take his wrists and place him back into handcuffs. This tactic worked, and Chandler was placed back into handcuffs. He was subsequently charged with harassment and resisting arrest.
I want to mention this about the controlled strikes. I realize the optics of strikes to the face and head are always bad, but if done with control and purpose, they are within policy and within DCJS standards. The purpose of these strikes is to force the arrestee to raise his hands so officers can take his wrists and place him into custody.
The second person, Antal Tatum, was arrested because he tried to intervene in the arrest of Chandler. He was charged with Obstructing Governmental Administration and resisting arrest. There were no visible injuries on either of the individuals, and both refused medical treatment when offered.

Chandler returned to the scene on South Avenue on Thursday morning to tell his story. He is adamant that the escalation in force was completely unnecessary and said that this is why the police have lost the trust of his neighbors.

"I'm traumatized, stuff like that [is] not supposed to happen," Chandler said. "I don't want that to happen again."

Chandler is firm that he did not spit on or at an officer. Instead, he said that he spat on the floor. It's a claim he makes in the heat of the moment during the arrest, heard clearly during the video recording after an officer kneels on his head and strikes him.

As to what led up to the encounter, Chandler said that he was initially pulled over for having tinted windows. He disputes the claim that he did not have a valid license. He said that instead that he had a legal permit to drive.

He also said that he and Tatum were denied medical treatment, directly contradicting Chief Cecile. Instead, he said that the pair had to walk on their own to Upstate Hospital to receive care.

Chandler and others dismissed the idea that anything was done to provoke officers, instead pointing out that sworn officers should have the training to ensure they don't jump to violence during interactions with civilians.

Chandler's mother, Lataya Dixon, said she was scared for her son after learning what happened so close to where he lives.

"I'm glad they didn't kill him, but they hurt him, physically, mentally and emotionally," Dixon said.

Chandler, Tatum and supporters are now exploring legal options, including filing with the Citizens Review Board. They all raised doubts about the validity of Syracuse Police investigating their officers; while the chief did not specify which policies may have been violated, he did say that there will be discipline and retraining coming off the back of this incident.

In a statement sent to CNY Central, Police Benevolent Association President Joseph Moran said the officers were justified in their actions.

READ THE COMMENTS (31)

"When a perpetrator spits at or on our members, our members are going to put their hands on the perpetrator and then tackle the perpetrator to the ground so they are not spit on or at again," said Moran. "Subsequently, our members will use reasonable and necessary force to place the perpetrator in custody and arrest him/her, as happened in this incident."






















  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Fly La Compagnie: Business Travel, Reimagined
La Compagnie
|
SPONSORED
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
Sciatica Is Not from a Slipped Disc. Meet the Real Enemy of Sciatica (Stop Doing This)
Smoothspine
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Second hotel owner pleads guilty to stealing more than $223,000 in taxpayer funds
What is a deed of reconveyance, and how does it work?
Subcontractor arrested after taking thousands for job he never did, Sheriff's Office says
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.