By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Forestry workers will be removing more than 50 trees that are either invasive, dangerous, dying or dead from an historic Syracuse park as part of a $320,000 improvement project.
The
makeover for the James Pass Arboretum
will start later this month and continue into the fall with a community tree planting event, Mayor Ben Walsh’s office announced Monday. Located in the Tipperary Hill neighborhood across from Burnet Park on South Avery Avenue, the arboretum is in the midst of its 100th anniversary year. James Pass’s widow, Adelaide, donated the land on Arbor Day in 1925 for the park.
The park will remain open to the public during the project. Over the past year, the city held six community meetings to get public input on the project, which is overseen by the Department of Parks, Recreation and Youth Program’s Forestry Division.
In addition to tree removal, workers will prune more than 40 others to improve their health and stability. A community planting event to install 70 new trees is planned for the fall, along with a 100th anniversary dedication celebration on Oct. 9.
Other improvements planned at the park including newly paved walkways and replacement of a chain link fence on the western side to match the ornamental fencing in other areas. Existing trees will be mulched with edged perimeters. All trees will be labeled, as well.
Future phases of the project will include an ADA accessible path into the upper section of the park.
“The Pass Arboretum is a special place that is important to the West Side and a valuable resource for people across the city,” Walsh said in a news release. “Like any park or natural space, it needs careful attention and care so it can thrive.”
More details on the project are posted at
syr.gov/passarboretumprojectplan.
The site includes a link where feedback can be provided to the parks department. Additional community engagement plans will take place over the next several months.
In addition to the city’s project, the Pass Arboretum will be the site of a future memorial to two Central New York police officers killed in April 2024. The Tipperary Hill Neighborhood Association is spearheading the monument to honor
Sheriff’s Office Lt. Michael Hoosock
and
Syracuse police officer Michael Jensen
. Jensen lived in Tipp Hill.
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com