By
Marnie Eisenstadt | meisenstadt@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Onondaga County plans to open a daytime drop-in center in Syracuse’s downtown aimed at stopping the drift of the city’s homeless population and the people who prey on them.
Deputy County Executive Ann Rooney said the center, which will be funded with some of the county’s share of opioid lawsuit settlement money, will be able to serve between 30 and 50 people daily.
She said the county is still finalizing a location. It will be in downtown, or very close to it, county spokesman Justin Sayles said.
The idea of a daytime drop-in center has been floated several times as a possible solution for the
problems that have been plaguing Dickerson Street
, the street that runs in front of the Rescue Mission.
The mission allows its residents to stay inside the building in common areas during the day, but friends are not allowed to visit and congregate. The same goes for the outdoor area that the housing assistance agency opened last year.
The
city recenly fenced off the street
that connects the homeless shelter to downtown, hoping to both stop the problems created by both homeless people and the people who prey upon them. But that also pushed the people who congregated there out to other areas of the city’s downtown.
The city’s largest homeless shelter has long struggled with trouble on its doorstep, but the problems have gotten more attention since the redevelopment of the southern end of downtown. It showcases the push and pull of trying to revive part of a city that was all but abandoned before.
Before the Allyn Foundation built the Salt City Market, with restaurants, office space and mixed income apartments, the behavior of the homeless people and those who come to prey on them at the nearby Rescue Mission attracted little attention.
But now the market and the foundation’s new project renovating
The Chimes Building
across the street are struggling to deal with people who overdose on the sidewalk, panhandle on the street and sometimes cause problems inside.
Balancing the needs of businesses and the homeless has proved tricky.
Rooney said the hope is that the new drop-in center will help both.
She said it will be staffed with security and workers from different agencies who can provide services people might want, including mental health support and drug treatment services. The center will also aim to help people who are using drugs avoid overdosing by offering fentanyl testing strips.
Rooney said that people will also be able to simply stop in to cool off or warm up, depending on the weather. She said the plan is to have showering facilities and food available, as well. The drop-in center would be aimed at adults, not families.
She said the county hopes to have the center open by August.
Testimony: Nob Hill’s owners wouldn’t spend for needed repairs before fatal fire
New SNAP rules could cut benefits for 6,000 in Onondaga County
Kids abandoned at Upstate Golisano hospital attack the nurses: ‘Nobody signed up for this’
Everyone saw a Nob Hill disaster coming. Why didn’t Syracuse do more to prevent it?
Marnie Eisenstadt
Marnie Eisenstadt is a public affairs reporter at Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard. She has more than two decades of experience covering a wide range of topics and institutions including mental health,...
more
meisenstadt@syracuse.com