By
Advance Media NY Editorial Board
The Syracuse Common Council, led by two of its members who want to be mayor,
voted unanimously
Thursday to preserve unfair property tax assessments rather than begin a process to fix them.
It was a moment of political cowardice.
The council, without any public discussion,
slashed $16 million
from Mayor Ben Walsh’s proposed $348.4 million budget, including cuts to police and fire. Among the other items they cut was a plan to reassess every single property in the city — all 40,000 of them — to reflect current values. This comes a year after the council approved, without objection, funding to get the project started.
Councilors suddenly have reservations,
especially the mayoral candidates,
Pat Hogan and Chol Majok. Hogan says he doesn’t want to add to the burden of taxpayers who are facing the economic uncertainty of the Trump administration. Majok is skeptical a revaluation will fix inequities. Doing nothing won’t, either.
Hogan and Majok say their opposition has
nothing to do
with running for mayor. That beggars belief. The two are setting themselves apart from the third candidate in the Democratic mayoral primary, Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens, who has defended the citywide revaluation as a member of the Walsh administration.
Granted, redoing assessments is politically difficult. That explains why it hasn’t been done in three decades, and why Walsh waited until late in his second term to set it in motion. But he did set it in motion.
Councilors are afraid to upset constituents whose tax assessments might rise. They should remember they also represent people whose tax assessments are unfairly high
right now —
people who have held onto their homes even while slumlords take over their neighborhoods.
This council’s decision to put off a citywide assessment yet again means that tax inequities between poorer and wealthier neighborhoods,
documented by a 2019 syracuse.com analysis,
will only get wider.
In an astonishing statement during syracuse.com’s April 30 debate, Hogan said: “The logic doesn’t matter here. Folks now are under a lot of pressure.”
We disagree. The logic
does
matter. We’ll spell it out.
Taxes don’t go up or down because of assessments. Assessments simply determine how the tax burden is shared. If all the property taxes collected represent a pie, a citywide reassessment doesn’t affect the size of the pie; it helps to ensure the pie is cut up fairly.
Property owners facing higher assessments benefited for years — decades, even — from assessments that were lower than they should have been. Others had to pick up their tax burden.
A revaluation would
increase the city’s tax base.
The tax bill would go up for some, stay the same for some and shrink for some who have been historically overcharged.
The council’s budget cuts were engineered to eliminate a 2% tax increase proposed by Walsh.
By punting on the citywide revaluation, councilors took the easy way out. Now they don’t have to explain to constituents why it’s the right thing to do. That’s pandering, not leadership.
About Syracuse.com editorials
Editorials represent the collective opinion of the Advance Media New York editorial board. Our opinions are independent of news coverage. Read our
mission statement.
Members of the editorial board are Tim Kennedy, Trish LaMonte and Marie Morelli.
To respond to this editorial: Submit a letter or commentary to
letters@syracuse.com
. Read our
submission guidelines.
If you have questions about the Opinions & Editorials section, contact Marie Morelli, editorial/opinion lead, at
mmorelli@syracuse.com
Syracuse missed opportunities to intervene at Nob Hill apartments (Editorial Board Opinion)
Community has failed kids dumped at Upstate children’s hospital (Editorial Board Opinion)
With Mike Haynie, Syracuse University elevates the right leader for this moment (Editorial Board Opinion)
Editorial Board
Advance Media New York's Editorial Board offers our institutional opinion on matters of community interest. Editorials are separate from news. Editorial board members: Tim Kennedy, president; Trish LaMonte,...
more
mmorelli@syracuse.com