By
Don Cazentre | dcazentre@nyup.com
He’s a Syracuse Orange
national champion and legend
. He’s a
first-ballot NBA Hall of Famer
. He’s the father of one of
Syracuse basketball’s top recruits
for next season, and he’ll be the
speaker at next month’s SU commencement
.
Carmelo Anthony is also an entrepreneur in the cannabis industry, with his own brand,
STAYME70
(pronounced Stay Melo).
Anthony will make an appearance in downtown Syracuse on Monday (April 14) to promote the brand. He’ll be at the
Flynnstoned Cannabis Co.
at 219 Walton St. from 1 to 3 p.m. A pop-up sales event for STAYME70 takes place from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
“It’s a pleasure to have him because obviously he has that great Syracuse connection and because he’s a rising star in the cannabis industry,” said Flynnstoned owner Mike Flynn. Flynn’s cannabis company is
one of the biggest and most successful
in New York.
Anyone over age 21 can enter, and Anthony will meet and greet fans. There will be minimum purchase requirements for photos ($100) and photos and autographs ($200), Flynn said.
STAYME70’s products for now are limited to cannabis flower, Flynn said.
Anthony’s stop at Flynnstoned in Syracuse is part of a statewide brand launch tour this month.
“I’m excited to be launching the debut of STAYME7O in New York,” Anthony said in a press release. “New York is home, and bringing this project to life here feels incredibly personal and full circle. This isn’t just about cannabis—it’s about empowering our communities, uplifting underserved entrepreneurs, and creating meaningful opportunities that support and celebrate our culture.”
A portion of STAYME7O’s revenues support
NuProject
, a nonprofit “providing funding, financial coaching and network connections to help diverse entrepreneurs build generational wealth through the legal cannabis industry,” according to a news release.
Proceeds also benefit
Last Prisoner Project
, a nonprofit dedicated to cannabis criminal justice reform.
“It’s essential we open doors and create meaningful opportunities for these communities,” Anthony said in the news release.
Anthony’s STAYME70 brand is operated in partnership with
Grand National
, a cannabis agency operating on the West Coast.
RECOMMENDED
What Syracuse’s hiring of Gerry McNamara means for 2026-27 roster: Who could come from Siena?
Mar. 24, 2026, 8:06 a.m.
Syracuse basketball finalizing deal to hire Gerry McNamara as next head coach
Mar. 22, 2026, 7:53 p.m.
Don Cazentre writes for
NYup.com
,
syracuse.com
and The Post-Standard. Reach him at
dcazentre@nyup.com
, or follow him at
NYup.com
, on
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Watch