Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

47°

Syracuse council scrutinizes $8.1M payroll upgrade as delays and costs mount

by Matt Mulcahy

Mon, April 14, 2025 at 9:35 PM
00:01
00:00
4
VIEW ALL PHOTOS
Syracuse Common Councilors listen to administration of Mayor Ben Walsh explain the paring down of what once was a Four Phase Payroll Modernization project. (CNYCentral)

7
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
PAYROLL
UPGRADE
COUNCIL
COSTS
DELAYS
MODERNIZATION
PROJECT

SYRACUSE, N.Y. -- Nearly all the members of the Syracuse common council turned out for a committee level meeting this morning to raise concerns about the multi-million dollar, much delayed overhaul of the city’s payroll and other computer systems.

Finance Commissioner Michael Cannizzaro told councilors the administration of Mayor Ben Walsh has spent $8.1 million since 2020 trying to update what was commonly called the Payroll Modernization project.

Councilors questioned how much money was wasted to reach the point where the work is still not done. “It seems like as we are moving forward, it seems like we are tossing money into the hole,” Councilor Chol Majok said.

Our I-Team reports have told you for months about outside tech consultants being brought to Syracuse to work on the city’s Payroll Modernization project. Most of those business bypassed competitive bidding by the Walsh administration requesting waivers from the Common Council. Last fall, a whistleblower local tech company went to the mayor’s office with a complaint that Advanced IT had been made a “pass-through” for global giant Ernst and Young (EY) to do millions of dollars of business with the city.

Syracuse Common Councilors listen to administration of Mayor Ben Walsh explain the paring down of what once was a Four Phase Payroll Modernization project. (CNYCentral)




At today’s meeting newly appointed Chief Administrative Officer Corey Dunham shared a power point to show how the city is narrowing its focus on time keeping. She explained that piece of the project is the closest to being ready to implement. The original plans dating back to 2020 called for a four phase comprehensive project that would include a Human Capital Management system.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Councilors expressed frustration with Dunham not being able to walk through a timeline of where all the money went from 2020 until today. “I'll bet we did not get 8.1 million in value out of what was spent,” Councilor Corey Williams said.

Dunham referred the council to its own audit of the I.T. project that is ongoing that should spell out where the money went. The New York State Attorney General is also investigating.

Dunham does not think all the money and effort has gone to waste. She said it’s likely the preferred software provider in the past will not be the choice in the future. “If we do shift away from Oracle Fusion it's not that it was all for nothing. It’s information that we can use to whatever system we move to,” Chief Administrative Officer Corey Dunham said.

Nicolas Diaz, Director of Analytics, Performance and Innovation, wrapped up the meeting with a lesson learned for the administration and the common council. “It's great to work with external partners. We need that expertise, but we need to hold the external partners accountable,” Diaz said.

Common Councilor Pat Hogan pointed out the administration must get council approval for any new phase of the project to move forward. “They're going to have to go through the council to approve contracts. I don't really like this idea of waiver of competitive bidding none of the councilors do,” Hogan said.

Other councilors promised greater skepticism when it comes to future approvals. Councilor Rita Paniagua said, “We will be more careful. I don't know about skeptical but careful."

PREVIOUS REPORTS

Consultants, waivers, lack of bids relied on during incomplete overhaul of Syracuse I.T. -- April 11, 2025

New York Attorney General reviewing contract controversy at Syracuse City Hall -- Mar. 5, 2025

Whistleblower disputes Syracuse Mayor's facing in contract controversy -- Feb. 19, 2025

READ THE COMMENTS (7)

Contract controversy leads to shakeup at Syracuse City Hall -- Feb. 10, 2025

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
REPORT: Gerry McNamar a is set to become the next head coach of Syrac use Men's Basketball
TRENDING
Drone drops knives, drugs and cell phone inside fence at Marcy Correctional Facility
Victim shot in parking lot outside of Destiny USA dies
Breathalyzer company under security breach; cars unable to move
Contractor charged for not completing work he was paid to do
Chuck Norris passes away at age 86
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
5
Amazing America: The legacy of Susan B. Anthony
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.