Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

49°

Syracuse residents share their thoughts on the snow; one called it a 'nightmare'

by Rachel Culver

Tue, December 30, 2025 at 4:43 PM
Updated Tue, December 30, 2025 at 5:11 PM
Snow Rachel.jpeg
6
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
SNOW
ONONDAGA COUNTY
LAKE EFFECT
WINTER
SHOVELING
SNOWSTORM
WEATHER FORECAST

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — It was a full winter scene in Syracuse on Tuesday.

Heavy, lake effect snow fell over large swaths of Onondaga County. Many towns and villages saw a foot of snow or more by sunrise.

For Onondaga Community College student Shwaban Swiri, it was his first experience with snow. Swiri is from Africa. He told CNY Central that he was not a fan of it.

"I've been here for just a year and a half, but I've never seen such kind of snow like this," said Swiri. "I think this is like a nightmare to me."

Others took the Syracuse winter in stride. Such as the Esposito Family, who moved back to the city after living in Florida for a few years.

Syracuse residents share their thoughts on the snow; one called it a 'nightmare'

Giovanni Esposito said they tried taking care of the sidewalk so that they could walk their dog. Still, he took away some positives from the snow.

"You get shut inside when it's snowing, but if you go outside and shovel a little bit, then you get to get a little bit of exercise with the shoveling," he said.

Mehgi Taibi lost his phone in the snow. CNY Central approached him as he was trying to find it. He searched and searched for his phone but couldn't find it. At one point, a friend went to help him find it with a makeshift metal detector -- a phone taped to a Swiffer.

Still, Taibi wasn't done with the snow, for now.

"After February, I'm getting tired of the snow," said Taibi. "Yeah, for February, March, we get tired."

But for Swiri, despite calling it a "nightmare," he said he can't wait to tell his family in Africa about the snow.

"It was difficult to move my car," he said. "So, it ended up burning my tires and gas, too. It was difficult to move it, but I just tried my best to move it. I mean, it looks great from the window, it's just outside walking in it."

He added, "I have to take some pictures and then send them to them, or call them on video call and then show them how life is going here."

Officials in Syracuse are reminding neighbors to clear snow around fire hydrants and outdoor vents on their homes.

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh advised staying home if you do not need to drive.

READ THE COMMENTS (6)

For the latest on the forecast, follow this link.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
OCC put on lockdown because of threat; turns out to be paintball gun
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.