By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – The Onondaga County Legislature today passed the 2026 county budget on a straight party-line vote. Majority Republicans praised the $1.6 billion spending plan as fiscally responsible while Democrats complained that it spends too little on community needs.
“Absolutely yes,’’ said Legislator Julie Abbott, R-Skaneateles, when the clerk asked for her vote.
“Definitely no,’’ voted Legislator Maurice Brown, D-Syracuse.
The budget passed 12-4, with all four Democrats who were present voting against it. (The fifth Democrat, Minority Floor Leader Nodesia Hernandez, was absent due to illness.)
The crux of the disagreement was a list of budget amendments that Democrats tried to add to the spending plan, which was
proposed by County Executive Ryan McMahon
in September. McMahon touted the budget for keeping the property tax levy flat and cutting the tax rate by 11%.
Democrats had sought about $1.5 million in additional spending to fund 10 nonprofit community groups that provide services such as housing assistance, elder care, food distribution and other assistance, Brown said.
Only one of the proposals, a career readiness program by the Boys & Girls Club, received funding in the budget, Brown said. He criticized the budget for emphasizing fiscal restraint over social needs.
“Yes, we are producing a budget that has a flat tax levy,’’ Brown said. “It’s great. Taxes won’t go up. However, that financial savings comes at a moral cost.”
Republicans shot back, pointing out that the budget includes $3.3 million in new funding for day care, $1.2 million to address lead paint hazards, and other money targeting poverty and health hazards.
Legislislator Cody Kelly, R-Clay, said the county’s healthy finances put it in a strong position to address community needs with sustainable programs.
“It’s one thing to look at the dollars that we have in the bank, and surely we could spend those dollars in a lot of different ways and do a lot of good,’’ Kelly said. “But what happens when that money goes away? … We put forth a budget that invests in things that grow our economy. That’s what allows us to address these initiatives while maintaining a flat tax levy.”
The county’s strong credit rating also will save taxpayers money when the county sells bonds to pay for millions of dollars in infrastructure improvements to accommodate the growth expected from economic development, Kelly said.
McMahon proposed the budget Sept. 15. The plan increases overall spending 3%.
Among other initiatives, McMahon included $6.75 million for a new sheriff’s helicopter and $700,000 to begin using drones to respond to 911 calls.
Following a series of meetings last month to discuss the budget with county department heads, the legislature’s
Ways and Means Committee
made a couple of minor amendments.
The committee reduced the increase in sewer rates from $25 to $23. The household sewer charge will increase 5% -- rather than 5.5% -- to $476.58.
The Ways and Means Committee also voted to increase funding to the sheriff’s office by $500,000 to purchase new vehicles.
Onondaga County aquarium, two-thirds complete and still controversial, will cost $103.8M
After a winter of high bills, National Grid’s rates are going up again in April
National Grid’s ambitious plan looks to turn wastewater into energy in Syracuse. A key question remains
Tim Knauss
Tim Knauss is a watchdog reporter on the public affairs team at Syracuse.com, with four decades of experience covering Central New York. Knauss has written about a variety of subjects recently including unfair...
more
tknauss@syracuse.com