By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – When Vince Latorre moved to Nob Hill Apartments in 1991, the upscale complex was home to doctors, accountants and other professionals. The leafy campus had four large brick buildings on a quiet road shielded from city traffic. There was an outdoor pool, a playground and nicely landscaped grounds.
After you lived there for five years, the management would throw you a celebratory dinner at the nearby country club, Latorre said. People called the complex “Snob Hill,’' he said.
Today, the 760-unit apartment complex – Syracuse’s largest – is one-third empty despite a severe shortage of housing. The pool is still open, but weeds surround the buildings. A row of garages has so many busted doors they look like broken teeth. Latorre and some other tenants struggled without heat during part of last winter.
Elevators are unreliable. Water damage has gone unfixed. Some doors won’t lock.
Some 38 of the 108 garages at Nob Hill Apartments need new doors. Others need repairs.
Tim Knauss
Tenant representatives have scheduled a news conference Wednesday morning to call attention to the decay and to demand fixes from management.
City officials also are pushing for improvements. The city sued the owners in April over a raft of uncorrected code violations – faulty elevators, inadequate heating systems, water damage and more – many of which had been outstanding for months. The fines for noncompliance totaled $340,000 as of April.
The lawsuit is pending.
Into this storm of discontent comes Joe Labita, an apartment turnaround specialist from New York City, who swears he can restore Nob Hill to its former glory.
The ceiling in this laundry room collapsed.
Tim Knauss
Labita’s company, Destra Multifamily, was hired in March by the owner, a limited liability company controlled by California-based Windsor Capital Group. Windsor and two joint venture partners paid $58.5 million for Nob Hill in 2018, according to news reports.
Labita got to work in April, just as the city’s lawsuit was filed, charged with fixing the systemic problems plaguing Nob Hill.
It’s a challenge. Previous managers had neglected many problems, he said.
“I accepted the position and didn’t quite know the extent of what I was getting into,’’ Labita said. “There was a lot of areas for improvement, let’s just say. And we have been, and me personally, have been committed 120 hours a week … to making these improvements until this thing is a great place to live again.”
Tenants say they hope that’s true. But in the meantime, they have collected more than 200 signatures on a petition demanding repairs to the heating system, elevators, door locks and other issues by Oct. 1. The petition declares that tenants will refuse to accept rent increases for a year, until they verify that all the repaired items remain in good order in October 2026.
“I’m a renter by choice,’’ said Kona Mahu, a business consultant who moved to Nob Hill last May, after relocating from Atlanta, “This is the worst condition I have ever lived in in my life.”
Mahu, who pays $1,490 a month for a two-bedroom apartment, helped organize the first tenant association at Nob Hill last January, after she and some other residents spent up to two months without heat.
This sign was posted Tuesday at the entrance to one of the apartment buildings at Nob Hill.
Tim Knauss
Syracuse City Hall has a record of going to court to try to protect living conditions at large apartment complexes.
The city
sued Tim and Troy Green
in 2023, seeking a receiver for the Skyline Apartments and other properties because of their shoddy condition. Two years later, the city sued
Lifestyle Apartments at Syracuse
, the company that bought Skyline from the Greens, arguing that the company has dragged its feet on renovations. That litigation is pending.
Nothing at Nob Hill compares with the squalor that plagued
Skyline at its worst
. Four miles from downtown, at the southern edge of the city, Nob Hill is more isolated from drug dealing and other crime that added to Skyline’s woes.
But housing advocates at CNY Fair Housing, who are assisting the Nob Hill tenant association, say the neglect there is reminiscent of the rapid deterioration at Skyline, which also was a premium apartment building once.
“The reputation of the place is going downhill quick,’’ said Sally Santangelo, executive director of the fair housing group.
Labita said he’s working to reverse that, and he hopes the tenants will give him a little time. Already, he said, his team has replaced about two-thirds of the heating and hot water equipment at the complex. He promises the system is ready for winter.
Each of the four buildings at Nob Hill Apartments has a two-story lobby, reflecting the upscale ambience to which the complex aspired.
Tim Knauss
The new team also repaired trash compactors and trash chutes so that garbage doesn’t back up. They have made substantial elevator repairs and are in the process of hiring a new elevator maintenance contractor. They ordered new doors for 38 of the 108 garages and are evaluating contractors to make the repairs.
All told, the owners have sunk $2.4 million into the property during the past year, Labita said. They expect to spend another $1.7 million in the months ahead.
“Nob Hill is a big ship,’’ he said. “Big ships turn slowly.”
Mahu, the tenant group facilitator, said she’s happy that management is making capital improvements. But they also need to be more responsive to maintenance issues reported by tenants, she said.
She’s been waiting two months for her garage door to be fixed. She previously waited three months just to get the mailbox key for her apartment, she said.
“Take care of the people that pay the rent. Take care of the maintenance of the existing tenants. That’s just not happening,’’ she said.
RECOMMENDED
Syracuse missed opportunities to intervene at Nob Hill apartments (Editorial Board Opinion)
Mar. 22, 2026, 7:00 a.m.
Drivers wrongfully ticketed under new school-zone camera program (Good Morning CNY for March 23)
Mar. 23, 2026, 10:54 p.m.
Staff writer Tim Knauss can be reached at:
email
|
Twitter
| 315-470-3023.
Tim Knauss
Tim Knauss is a watchdog reporter on the public affairs team at Syracuse.com, with four decades of experience covering Central New York. Knauss has written about a variety of subjects recently including unfair...
more
tknauss@syracuse.com