Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Consultants, waivers, lack of bids relied on during incomplete overhaul of Syracuse I.T.

by Matt Mulcahy

Fri, April 11, 2025 at 4:49 AM
Updated Fri, April 11, 2025 at 7:18 PM
00:01
00:00
Consultants, waivers, lack of bids relied on during incomplete overhaul of Syracuse I.T. (Photo by: CNY Central)
6
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
CONSULTANTS
WAIVERS
PAYROLL MODERNIZATION
ERNST AND YOUNG
ADVANCED IT
SYRACUSE COMMON COUNCIL
COMPETITIVE BIDDING
AUDIT

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The lasting impact of the Information Technology contract controversy at Syracuse City Hall is apparent.

At the end of March, the Finance Commissioner for the administration of Mayor Ben Walsh admitted the lagging Payroll Modernization project consumed so much of his time, that he was months overdue with work needed for a critical outside audit.

The problems with the project came to light after a whistleblower submitted a complaint to the Walsh administration alleging her company, Advanced IT, had been used by global consultant Ernst & Young (EY) as a pass-through for EY to win millions of dollars in city business.

Since we interviewed Susan Fahrenkrug of Advanced IT, she has met with the administration to explain the details of ‘the book’ she presented as her complaint. She is still asking the city why EY needed her business as a pass-through. Fahrenkrug has also been interviewed by an investigator with the Syracuse Common Council as part of their audit into the problems with the I.T. project.

Mayor Walsh’s team stands by its claim that Advanced IT was brought on board to manage the complex project.

Scope of code violations take the forefront of Nob Hill civil case

The tangle of consultants, waivers and contracts is complex to understand. The original Request for Proposal led to a company called Cherry Road Technologies being awarded a Four Phase Payroll Modernization project. In a council meeting in May of 2021, Chief Administrative Officer Frank Caliva described the range of companies from small to large interested in doing the work.

“Right up to E and Y, one of the largest consulting groups in the world. And we're kind of going dead in the middle between those two extremes. And we think Cherry Road is a is a great choice and a great fit for the city,” Caliva said.

Director of Digital Services Kelsey May also frequently presented to the Common Council when a waiver was required to skip competitive bidding. At a meeting in July 2022, she justified the high cost of paying outside consultants.

“ERP systems are a lot of time, a lot of money, and the more time we spend planning, ultimately we're going to end up saving money,” said Kelsey May.

At that same time in 2022, the city was in discussion with EY about taking over the project and suggested it contact Advanced IT. Cherry Road spokesperson Kate Cassidy said its work started in June 2021 and finished in June 2023. She said the company met all deliverables.

By June 2023, several other consultants were brought into the project who had done work through Cherry Road. Those companies included Deer Island Bait, ERP One and Indev. As the overall administrator of the project, Frank Caliva created a spreadsheet to document the workflow. That spreadsheet and supporting emails include involvement from EY, Indev, and Deer Island Bait to help manage the project. He did not include any management from Advanced IT.

The next day, Caliva went before the common council to ask for more than $1.8 million to go to Advanced IT as the primary contractor. During his explanation to the councilors as to why competitive bidding was omitted Caliva incorrectly claimed EY had previously won an RFP.

“This was competitively bid in the beginning, when we first engaged advanced IT and Ernst Young, there were a number of both local and national firms that bid on the business. Ernst & Young received the winning bid, and this is basically a continuation of that,” Caliva said.

On March 28 of this year, outside auditor Gregg Evans of the Bonadio Group criticized the administration for relying on waivers instead of competitive bids for professional services such as consultants on Information Technology.

After completing the audit for the 2024 fiscal year, Evans called for better validation of requests for waivers.

“The way to go about it is to have documentation as to the rationale of a sole source or emergency purchase. And then the process you go through to determine that rationale,” Evans said.

Evans told the council he would help everyone understand the “why” for waivers.

Councilor Pat Hogan replied, “We had a $10 million dollar why earlier... we have to tighten things up on that.”

$10 million is the estimate for how much has been spent since 2021 on the unfinished project. The auditors also encourage the city to put jobs out to bid as the city charter suggests.

The Walsh Administration terminated the contract with EY at the end of January after paying the consultant $2.8 million. Frank Caliva left his post with the city at the end of 2024.

On Monday, April 14, a committee of the Syracuse Common Council has scheduled a meeting for the Chief Administrative Officer Corey Dunham to give an update on the status of the payroll modernization and timekeeping project.

PREVIOUS REPORTS

New York Attorney General reviewing contract controversy at Syracuse City Hall -- Mar. 5, 2025

Whistleblower disputes Syracuse Mayor's facing in contract controversy -- Feb. 19, 2025

READ THE COMMENTS (6)

Contract controversy leads to shakeup at Syracuse City Hall -- Feb. 10, 2025




  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
Sciatica Is Not from a Slipped Disc. Meet the Real Enemy of Sciatica (Stop Doing This)
Smoothspine
|
SPONSORED
U.S. Neurologists Call This Drink "Bottled Cognitive Decline" — Do You Drink It ?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Oswego County man pleads guilty to insurance fraud totaling over $10,000
What is a deed of reconveyance, and how does it work?
Buffalo Tops racist-shooting trial stays in Western NY after judge rejects move to NYC
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.