By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — A 20-year-old Syracuse ordinance aimed at ensuring city and school district contractors pay workers above
poverty-level
wages has been failing for years, a
new audit
says.
City Auditor Alexander Marion today is releasing a report on Syracuse’s
living wage ordinance
. Adopted in 2005, the ordinance is filled with loopholes and lacks enforcement provisions.
“What we have found is that we have a lifeless living wage ordinance,” Marion said in an interview last week. “This has been watered down to the point that we could not find a single entity that was required to be participating in it.”
The wage ordinance applies to companies that are doing contract work for the city valued at more than $20,000. The two most common exemptions are for companies that provide professional services, which is not clearly defined, and for employers with fewer than five employees during any week of the year.
“If you have five employees for 51 weeks and then lay everyone off for a week around Christmas and bring everyone back for the New Year, it doesn’t apply to you,” Marion said.
Even if such loopholes didn’t exist, the audit found, contractors could easily get away with non-compliance. There’s been little effort to notify contractors about the requirement and to monitor contractors to ensure compliance. One reason for this? The ordinance never established how that should be done or who should do it.
The ordinance also established a living wage advisory committee tasked with meeting quarterly to discuss the ordinance’s effectiveness, but that body has not met since 2014 and has no appointees.
The ordinance uses a formula based on the Consumer Price Index to determine the living wage each year in Syracuse. Effective April 1, the city’s living wage is going to be $16.41 for contractor employees who receive paid health-care benefits and $19.37 for those who do not. The state’s minimum wage is now at $15.50 per hour.
Marion said that extra money with a living wage can make a major difference for households in a city that
leads the nation
in child poverty.
“The principle behind living wage ordinance, that tax dollars should not go to subsidize poverty, is still very true, immensely true,” he said. “The minimum wage is not high enough to not ensure people are in poverty. Had the living wage stayed with inflation since the 1960s, it would be, but it has not.”
Marion is calling for Mayor Ben Walsh’s administration and the Syracuse Common Council to work on a complete overhaul of the city’s ordinance. He would start by eliminating contractor loopholes.
“Get rid of all the exemptions, get rid of all the associated carve outs, make the living wage ordinance apply to every city contractor,” he said. “Period, end of sentence.”
The audit suggests revising the law’s enforcement language to put the city’s office of management and budget in charge of compliance. He also suggests a new living wage formula used by the United Way that factors in local data about housing, child-care, food, transportation and other daily living costs.
To get momentum for an ordinance overhaul started, the council and the mayor should revive the advisory committee.
The Walsh administration generally agreed with Marion’s conclusion’s about the ordinance’s shortcomings, noting that its creation and subsequent implementation problems preceded Walsh’s first term that started in 2018.
“The Living Wage Ordinance is deeply flawed legislation, including its failure to assign a responsible department or to establish any rules and procedures for compliance and enforcement,” Corey Driscoll Dunham, the city’s chief administrative officer, wrote in a response to the audit report. “The administration is open to and welcomes a dialogue with the common council on ways in which the ordinance can better meet its intended goal.”
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
New venue will let you play 18 holes of golf in downtown Syracuse later this year
See Syracuse’s 25 most dangerous intersections (and how the city plans to make them safer)
Syracuse’s mayoral primary was a landslide. Is it a wakeup call for old guard Democrats?
Crews will start removing dozens of trees this month at historic Syracuse park
Syracuse police chief hopes union leader ‘cools off’ after ‘dangerous’ online comments
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.