Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

'Speechless': email thread between Housing Authority and City Hall obtained by I-Team

by Mary Kielar

Fri, April 18, 2025 at 6:32 PM
00:01
00:00
The I-Team obtained communications through a Freedom of Information Law request. (Photo by CNY Central)

7
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
HOUSING AUTHORITY
CITY HALL
$2 MILLION
EAST ADAMS NEIGHBORHOOD
RESOLUTION
ENVIRONMENTAL WORK
NEPA
EMAIL COMMUNICATION

Syracuse, N.Y. — CNY Central was in the Syracuse Housing Authority Board Room for a special meeting on April 7.

The meeting was called to have the commissioners vote on a resolution to approve an agreement allowing the city to give $2 million to SHA so they could pay their developer for environmental work.

The work is related to the phases of the East Adams Neighborhood housing project. When it came time to vote, commissioners expressed concern over not seeing the resolution beforehand and vetting it through committees.

Executive Director Bill Simmons then explained he and other executive staff were not at the negotiating table while the deal was discussed. Simmons told the I-Team moments after that meeting that he still had questions about what the $2 million was going towards.

Commissioners chose not to vote on the deal.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Following that meeting, the I-Team reached out to the city with SHA's claims. City hall confirmed to CNY Central that SHA leadership and their lawyer were involved in every conversation.

Through a Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) request, the I-Team obtained email communication between the city, the Housing Authority, and project developer McCormack Baron Salazar.

Susan Katzoff, one of the city's lawyers, wrote an email hours after the special board meeting:

"In 30+ years of practice, I have never been involved in a transaction where the parties agree to a path and then take

the exact opposite action without the courtesy of a phone call. There is absolutely no basis to contend that SHA

was not aware of what was being requested, the terms of the agreement or the invoices to be paid. Each of you

have been on every email and participated in all the calls. All of the information was shared with the entire

group. Messaging on timing was clear. Yet somehow today, no one was able to explain to the board what the

agreement was intended to accomplish. Speechless.

Moreover, the only outcome of the agreement was to find a path to provide SHA with $2 million dollars that it

doesn’t have. That $2mm would leverage the City’s ability to access the $30mm RCN dollars – all for the benefit

of the project. I am not sure what was difficult about that explanation. What I do know, is that the infrastructure design work is

already well behind schedule and the City is facing an inability to complete the design in time to access those

$30mm dollars. Why you ask? Because NEPA is not completed. The agreement would have fixed that.

If anyone from the SHA team can explain why, if they didn’t understand the invoices, they didn’t raise a concern

during one of the 100 emails last week; or voice concern on Friday when everyone agreed to the terms of the

agreement; or raised a concern before you scheduled the board meeting; or asked for help explaining the structure

to the board or tell me what else the board might need to understand the gravity of this situation. If anyone can tell

me, I am all ears. Otherwise, I will be advising the Mayor that as I see it the City is at significant risk of failing to

meet its deadline to access the $30mm. If I am asked why, I will explain to him the foregoing and share all of the

emails."

The I-Team asked Simmons and the Housing Authority's lawyer Brad Hunt about the emails after a regular board meeting Thursday.

READ THE COMMENTS (7)

"I have nothing further to say about that," said Hunt. When we asked Simmons about the accusations stated by Corporation Counsel, he said "That's factually incorrect what you just stated."

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
Family, jobs, sunshine: Why these homeowners are opting out of their...
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.