By
Vince Gasparini | vgasparini@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. - A vacant apartment building on Syracuse’s South Side was damaged by a fire Thursday morning.
At approximately 6:51 a.m., firefighters arrived at 105 Latimer Ter., where they saw flames coming from the second floor of the building, according to Syracuse Fire Department spokesperson Erik Caster.
It took crews about 40 minutes to extinguish the fire, Caster said.
The fire was contained to the apartment where it started, however a next-door unit sustained smoke and water damage, according to a press release from Caster.
A second-floor attic in the back of the building was significantly damaged, according to Caster.
Firefighters encountered several holes in the floor between the first and second floor as they entered the building, according to the press release.
No injuries were reported.
The fire originated in a second-floor bathroom. The cause is still under investigation, according to the release.
Firefighters remained on scene for more than two hours.
Vacant property fires are a
recurring issue
in Syracuse.
Of the city’s 87 structure fires in 2024, nearly 30% were in vacant homes, according to fire department spokesperson Capt. Phillip Vogt. The city currently has 1,490 vacant homes and 163 vacant commercial buildings.
Officials say such properties often attract homeless people seeking shelter who start fires to keep warm or cook. Others are used by drug users or targeted by vandals.
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week
Binge ‘Someone’s Hunting Us,’ a podcast about a serial killer and the women who took him down
Onondaga Community College briefly locked down; student found with paintball gun
Several departments battle large house fire in Cayuga County
An Upstate NY corrections officer claimed $70K in injuries, but surveillance cameras told a different story
Vince Gasparini
Vince Gasparini is a breaking news reporter at syracuse.com | The Post Standard, where he covers crime, public safety, weather and human-interest stories. He is a 2025 graduate from the University at Albany,...
more
vgasparini@syracuse.com