By
Douglass Dowty | ddowty@syracuse.com
Chad Terrinoni, of Hummingbird Heating & Cooling, and community activist Mary Nelson sweat inside Nelson's youth center after the A/C broke down. Picture taken July 30, 2025.
Provided photo
Syracuse, NY -- Syracuse’s Hummingbird Heating & Cooling has promised to donate a brand-new air conditioning system so Mary Nelson’s Youth Center can reopen next week.
“I just thought it was the right thing to do,” Owner Chad Terrinoni said. “Donate the systems and do the installs.”
The install retails for $40,000, Terrinoni said.
But for Nelson, who feeds 50 to 60 low-income kids daily at her center and gives away thousands of backpacks to school kids each fall, he’ll do it for free.
Terrinoni offered his services after
reading a syracuse.com story Tuesday night
about how a broken A/C unit had prevented kids from eating meals at Nelson’s South Salina Street youth center for much of the summer.
A state inspector didn’t like Nelson’s solution of sending meals home with kids. That cost her participation in a school program that delivered 80 breakfasts and lunches daily. Instead, she vowed to feed the kids with her own money and donations.
The hot temperatures did more than impact the food program. The center also provides a refuge for youth and includes amenities like a barber shop and game room.
Nelson’s center usually serves dozens of kids each day. But with the A/C off, few are coming. Six stopped by Wednesday, she said.
Terrinoni, who has owned Hummingbird for 14 years, said he could relate to kids having a tough childhood: His own troubled past had led him into opioid addiction before landing on his feet.
“I just love knowing that she helps the community like that,” Terrinoni said of Nelson. “HVAC is something that saved my life. It took me from a bad place. I use the business to give back.”
That’s what led him to Nelson’s youth center Wednesday morning.
“She was very appreciative,” he said. “It was a nice time to talk to her.”
But one thing was also clear: it was too hot for kids to use the center’s barber shop, game room and other facilities until the A/C is back on.
“It was so hot I put a new shirt on when I went in there and I was wringing it out when I left,” he said.
Terrinoni determined the center’s furnaces and air conditioning units were too old to maintain properly. He praised Nelson’s previous contractors who had donated their time to keep things running before now.
But Terrinoni was determined to do something bigger: he vowed to replace both of the 4,000-square-foot center’s two furnaces and cooling coils, as well as its two air conditioning units. He’ll redo the electrical wiring and plug the new system into her existing ductwork.
“Thank you Chad Terrinoni and Hummingbird Heating & Cooling,” Nelson wrote on Facebook. “We are blessed to be donated Brand New HVAC Units and Heating Units. GOD always have his Angels ready.”
To do so, Terrinoni will rent a big crane to lift the Rheem furnaces and 4-ton air conditioners onto the center’s roof.
If he can find two crews, it’ll take a day. With one crew, two days.
The install is planned for next Tuesday.
“I want to make sure kids are eating,” he said.
Mary Nelson stands outside of the Mary Nelson Youth/Community Center on Thursday, Dec. 16, 2021. (Katrina Tulloch | ktulloch@syracuse.com)
NY’s top mental health official visits Upstate after story about abandoned kids who attack nurses
Free NY tuition for health care jobs is still available. Deadline almost here!
Manlius pediatrician appears before judge on 21 felonies as clues emerge on case ahead
NY state tries to curb deadly hazard in poor neighborhoods after Syracuse’s efforts falter
Manlius pediatrician now faces 21 felonies, accused of vaccine fraud to get her son into school
Staff writer Douglass Dowty can be reached at
ddowty@syracuse.com
or (315) 470-6070.
Douglass Dowty
I am the health reporter at Syracuse.com. I cover a range of topics, including public health, insurance, addiction, workforce, public policy and the business of health. I can be reached at (315) 470-6070.
I...
more
ddowty@syracuse.com