Syracuse Police Chief Joe Cecile (left) and Syracuse Fire Chief Michael Monds (right) do a tip-off with Mayor Ben Walsh on the steps of City Hall on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 to announce a charity basketball between firefighters and police officers on May 23, 2025.
Greta Stuckey
By
Greta Stuckey | gstuckey@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Mayor Ben Walsh announced Wednesday the return of a basketball game between the Syracuse Fire Department and Syracuse Police Department to raise money for a local nonprofit.
The game, called the Bravest vs. Finest, used to be an annual tradition but hasn’t been played since 2019.
Money raised will go to the United Way of Central New York, a nonprofit that identifies community needs and collects money to be distributed to local organizations. In 2024, The United Way awarded over $2.2 million to 73 programs across 34 local agencies.
“We think about the health and wellbeing of folks in our community every day,” said Nancy Kern Eaton, the United Way president.
Fire Chief Michael Monds said off-duty firefighters will be at the game to spread education regarding fire prevention.
“It’s going to be more than a basketball game,” Monds said. “We’re raising money for a good cause.”
The game will be played May 23 at Corcoran High School. Doors open at 5:30 p.m. and tip-off is at 6:30 p.m.
Tickets are $10
per person, but kids who are five years or younger can enter for free.
“Up until now, the fans have really been limited to family and friends of the teams,” Walsh said. “This year, we are changing that. The event is open to the public.”
Local artist
Mike Borkowski
designed a shirt featuring the teams which can be bought and
shipped for $25
before the game.
The game is known to be a friendly, yet competitive environment between officers and firefighters who often work together on the job.
Police Chief Joe Cecile joked on Wednesday about recruiting members of the Syracuse University basketball team to become special officers for the day so the police could win the game.
“This is a great opportunity for folks to see us in a different light just playing a game,” Cecile said. “We hope the crowds come out to support us and also to help the United Way with their fundraiser.”
Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh (right) on Wednesday, April 23, 2025 announced the return of a basketball game between the Syracuse Fire Department and Syracuse Police Department to raise money for a local nonprofit. Joining him at City Hall were (from left) United Way President Nancy Kern Eaton, Police Chief Joe Cecile and Fire Chief Michael Monds.
Greta Stuckey
Oswego County sexual offender pleads guilty to child porn charges, prosecutors said
Charges against man who fatally stabbed another man in Syracuse upgraded to murder
Update: Power goes out after crash on Syracuse’s South Side sends woman to hospital
Road rage between strangers escalated quickly before fatal Syracuse shooting, prosecutor says
Extra firefighters called in for two-alarm apartment fire on Syracuse’s North Side, 17 displaced
Staff writer Greta Stuckey covers breaking news. Have a tip, a story idea, a question or a comment? You can reach her at
gstuckey@syracuse.com
.
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.