By
Timia Cobb | tcobb@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Van Robinson, the former president of the Syracuse Common Council and longtime advocate for Syracuse and its African American community, has died.
Robinson, who was 87 years old, died at Upstate University Hospital on Saturday afternoon, according to Charles Garland of Garland Brothers Funeral Home.
Keep Watching
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
Robinson, who called Syracuse home for 57 years, was a longtime leader of the Syracuse NAACP, serving as its vice president and president.
“A soft voice and patient way belied Van Robinson’s immense strength and steely determination,” Mayor Ben Walsh said in a statement. “Syracuse is a better city because of Van’s service and sacrifice.”
Robinson first joined the Common Council in 1999 to fill a vacant seat. He then went on to run for that same seat. In 2009, he was elected president of the Common Council, the first Black politician to hold that job.
He served 18 years on the council and was president twice before retiring in 2017.
Robinson helped revive the city’s NAACP chapter in 1968 after moving to Syracuse from the Bronx. He had been working with a New York City-based insurance company that put him in charge of its expansion into upstate New York.
Robinson also helped establish the New York State Fair’s Pan-African Village and was one of the first city politicians to call for the
removal of the Interstate 81
viaduct that ravaged Syracuse’s 15th ward when it was built in the early 60s.
“His determined vision was a critical factor in the decision to take down the Interstate 81 viaduct,” Walsh said. “In recent years as his health declined, when his presence was needed at pivotal occasions for Syracuse, Van summoned his strength to be there.”
Senator Chuck Schumer said in a statement Sunday that Robinson “represented the very best of Central New York.” He remembered always seeking Robinson out in the Pan African Village at the fair each year. He also lauded Robinson’s vision for Syracuse after the removal of I-81.
“Future generations in Syracuse will know what it is like to live in a connected community, rather than one divided by a highway, and that is thanks to the extraordinary dedication of Van Robinson,” Schumer said.
“He was a voice and fierce advocate for the community and thanks to his work, we are finally reconnecting communities split by I-81,” Governor Kathy Hochul said in a statement Sunday.
Robinson’s commitment and love for the city of Syracuse was seen by his political peers.
Pioneering Syracuse politician Van Robinson reflects on Black History Month: ‘This is what we work for’
In 2023, city officials
approved a resolution
to name the room where lawmakers debated and voted upon thousands of resolutions and laws to the Van B. Robinson Common Council Chambers.
“Van B. Robinson was a visionary ahead of his time,” Common Council President Helen Hudson wrote in support of the resolution at the time.
Garland, who is also an Onondaga County legislator, posted online Saturday that “Robinson was a trailblazer in Syracuse politics, a true advocate for our community, transcending racial politics, being a bridge, uniting us all for the greater good. His dedication and vision were an inspiration.”
George Kilpatrick, a host of a local urban radio show, posted online that Robinson was “a great servant and a great man...Thank you Van for believing in the Cuse, for your vision, and your lasting legacy fighting for Justice in our community.”
Common Councilor Jimmy Monto, who is chairman of the city Democratic Party, posted on social media Saturday evening that Robinson had died.
“He is truly the reason that I believe in good government,” Monto told Syracuse.com Saturday evening. “He’s my greatest example of what humble, and kind looks like as a servant to the city of Syracuse.”
Even in Robinson’s last few days, Monto said he could still go to him for a little humor and advice. Above everything else, Monto said Robinson was always brave, encouraging, wise and a gentleman.
“We lose that,” he said. “We lose his presence. But I think his lessons live on because a lot of us will govern and serve this city keeping in mind that he kind of laid the framework for exactly how to do it right.”
RECOMMENDED
Micron sales, profits soar to new heights (Good Morning CNY for March 19)
Mar. 19, 2026, 6:17 a.m.
Drivers wrongfully ticketed under new school-zone camera program (Good Morning CNY for March 23)
Mar. 23, 2026, 10:54 p.m.
Van Robinson, former president of common council, on Aug. 14, 2023 calls for tearing down Interstate 81. (Dennis Nett | dnett@syracuse.com)
Syracuse.com staff writer Timia Cobb covers breaking news. Have a tip, a story idea, a question or a comment? You can reach her at
tcobb@syracuse.com.
Timia Cobb
Timia Cobb is a breaking news reporter for Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard. Before joining the breaking news team in January 2024, Timia worked as a fellow with Syracuse.com as she attended Syracuse University...
more
tcobb@syracuse.com