By
Ryann Phillips | Contributing Writer
Syracuse, N.Y. — When more than 200 ninth graders filed up the stairs and into
Syracuse’s STEAM High School
Wednesday morning, it was the first day of school on the downtown campus in 50 years.
STEAM banners waved in front of the school. Teachers and staff wore black shirts with the STEAM logo: a chemistry beaker, a gear, a treble clef, a circuit board and a pi symbol in rainbow colors.
In a visual arts classroom
, “Welcome” and “Happy First Day” were written on whiteboards.
Lots of students had first-day jitters. Some were surprised to see old friends among a group that included about 200 city teens, 30 from the suburbs and 18 from private and charter schools. Others were nervous, picking their nails and fiddling with phones (
before they were locked away
).
“It almost looks like a rich private school, basically, that’s the vibes I was getting,” one student said during a news conference with the mayor and superintendent inside the 122-year-old building.
The STEAM school is the opposite of private. It’s the city’s sixth high school and it’s open to students throughout Onondaga County who apply for a slot.
This first day was the culmination of a seven-year effort from local and state leaders to reimagine the former Central High School as a regional magnet that offers students the chance to become business leaders, builders, data analysts, engineers, computer chip makers and performers.
“You all are pioneers,” said Mayor Ben Walsh, who spearheaded the idea to create the regional school back in 2019. “When we look back on the history of this school and all of the amazing accomplishments, it will have started with you all.”
Madison Howard is one member of STEAM’s inaugural class. Last year, she went to Roberts Pre K-8 Middle School in Syracuse. At STEAM, she says she’s excited to learn about data analytics.
“They have really good programs to lead into college,” Howard said. “You can go out into the job force with any of them. It’s depending on how good you are at the program, though, probably.”
Wednesday was the first day of school for most of the city’s 17,000 students. Juniors and seniors start on Thursday.
At STEAM, it’s just the ninth graders for now. Officials plan to add a new group of ninth graders each year until the school is fully enrolled with about 1,000 by the time students like Madison are seniors.
STEAM students can choose from nine specialties– business entrepreneurship, construction management, data analytics, entertainment engineering, animation and gaming, robotics/automation, semiconductor manufacturing, technology and visual and performing arts.
The most popular focus areas are gaming, robotics, and performing arts, officials said.
About 400 students applied to be part of the first class. The goal is to eventually have about 60% of the students from the city, with the remaining from other communities.
The state invested $71 million into the $100 million project.
Micron Technology
, which plans to break ground on a computer chipmaking complex in Clay later this year, has also pledged support.
The renovation at STEAM is ongoing. “Do not enter” signs and orange and white cones stood below a STEAM banner at the front. The first and second floors are complete, but officials said they are still working on the auditorium and some offices. The classrooms, laboratories, technology room, and dance studio are ready.
During the first year, the students will help pick official school colors and a mascot.
Madison said she was also excited about the field trips. And they are spending their first days visiting the C&S Companies, Redhouse and The MOST.
“Congratulations and also thank you,” Walsh told a group of students in a construction management classroom. “It’s brave to take this leap of faith.”
Ryann Phillips
Contributing Writer
rphillips@syracuse.com