Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

49°

Mayor Walsh doles out more than $60K in bonuses in 'challenging fiscal environment'

by Matt Mulcahy

Tue, October 28, 2025 at 6:32 PM
Updated Wed, October 29, 2025 at 10:23 AM
00:01
00:00
Mayor Walsh doles out more than $60K in bonuses in “challenging fiscal environment” (Photo by CNY Central)

30
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
BONUSES
MAYOR WALSH
MERIT-BASED
CITY GOVERNMENT
PAYROLL MODERNIZATION
LEGAL ISSUES
NEW YORK STATE COMPTROLLER

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh awarded bonuses mostly of $2,000 or $1500 to some of the top members of his administration including Police Chief Joe Cecile, Finance Commissioner Mike Cannizzaro and Water Commissioner Robert Brandt. The bonuses were described as “merit-based” or “discretionary”. They come on top of 3% Cost of Living Adjustment for the non-union workers and significant pay grade elevations of twenty to forty percent for staff members.

Sources inside City Hall say the bonuses are unusual in Syracuse city government over time. Predecessors to Mayor Walsh did not utilize them.

City records show the payments were made in three groups earlier in 2025. The first made on February 26th to 26 people, totaling $41,500. The second was on April 30th to six people totaling $9500. The third made on July 17th to five more people totaling $9500.

Chief Administrative Officer Corey Driscoll Dunham explained the bonuses. “Part of our compensation policy includes merit-based payments, and that might be for someone who's taken on a major project, or someone who's done an outstanding job,” said Dunham. “So that's really the idea, to try and recognize the contributions of employees.”

Some examples of the 37 recipients of the bonuses: Deputy Chief Richard Trudell received $2,000 on top of his annual pay of $192,154, Director of Human Resources Rick Alsever received $2,000 on top of $129,617 and Director of Information Technology David Prowak received $2,000 on top of $111,989.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Others on the list, Finance Commissioner Mike Cannizzaro had an increased profile from late 2024 into 2025 as he was put in charge of the struggling Payroll Modernization project. He received a discretionary bonus of $2,000 in the February 26th group. His annual salary is $129,617 which jumped $15,000 from the prior year after the compensation study.

Water Commissioner Robert Brandt received a $2,000 bonus on top of his $109,071 which increased nearly $9,000 from the year before. Syracuse Police Chief Joe Cecile, along with his deputy chiefs, received a $2,000 bonus on top of his $209,385.

There were also staff who received bonuses in the Department of Public Works, Parks Department and the office of Neighborhood and Business Development.

The Walsh administration did not need Common Council approval to distribute the bonuses but did mention a ‘pool’ payment system in a note to councilors in advance of a

2023 committee meeting regarding the full compensation study. When councilors were asked they said they did not know the money had been awarded earlier this year.

Chief Administrative Officer Dunham described the abstract criteria that goes into management and the mayor deciding who gets the bonus as the end of the year approaches. “There's no promises made ahead of time. It's not something that people know that they're getting. It's fed through department heads, through senior staff, and ultimately to the mayor. It is leading a major project, doing an outstanding job at the job responsibilities you have or taking on additional responsibilities.”

NEW YORK STATE COMPTROLLER OPINIONS

Our report informed the Walsh Administration about legal opinions written by the New York State Comptroller’s Office that state using taxpayer dollars to pay bonus payments to government workers violates the state constitution. The legal foundation for not making such payments is an effort to avoid government leaders exerting undue influence on subordinates.

The Comptroller cites a 1985 legal opinion which explains criteria must be set up in advance of the work being performed. It must include “identifiable guidelines” to be applied by supervisors when evaluating employees.

READ THE COMMENTS (30)

The Walsh Administration acknowledges it did not consult with its own legal counsel before implementing the bonus plan. It was also not aware of the Comptroller’s guidance. As of late Monday, the mayor’s team has reached out to the Comptroller for current guidance on merit bonus programs.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
10 Things I Wish People Knew About Lupus
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
OCC put on lockdown because of threat; turns out to be paintball gun
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.