By
Mark Weiner | mweiner@syracuse.com
Syracuse airport officials are defending their decision
to reject a controversial video message from Kristi Noem
, the U.S. Homeland Security secretary, by citing a policy about permitted “government advertising.”
In a statement, airport officials seem to suggest that Noem’s message blaming Democrats for the
government shutdown
is a political ad and that their policy rejects political messaging. Airport officials also seem to be concerned about unspecified legal issues.
But no one from the authority that operates Syracuse Hancock International Airport would answer questions from syracuse.com about Noem’s video, clarify its statement or explain who decided to reject the video that is airing at other airports across the nation.
Jason Terreri, executive director of the Syracuse Regional Airport Authority, declined a request for an interview.
“We’re not going to comment any further on the video,” Terreri wrote in a text message to a syracuse.com reporter Tuesday night.
An unidentified airport spokesperson emailed a brief statement about the video but did not reply when asked follow-up questions by syracuse.com about the airport’s decision.
“The airport remains committed to maintaining a nonpartisan environment for all travelers,” the statement said. “In alignment with this commitment, our Terminal Advertising Policy expressly prohibits political advertising, ensuring that messaging within our facilities remains neutral and focused on the traveler experience.”
The statement added that “as an industry, airport sponsors are mindful of potential legal implications associated with displays of political messaging in this space.”
Airport officials would not explain why they consider Noem’s video to be “advertising” when the Transportation Security Administration’s free public service messages regularly play in a loop at the airport’s security screening checkpoint.
On Monday and Tuesday, the single television above the airport security checkpoint was
looping through a video
recorded earlier this year. In that video, Noem encourages travelers to obtain their REAL ID by the since-passed May 7 deadline.
The airport’s statement called that video “permitted governmental advertising” under its
terminal advertising policy
. That policy lists 14 categories of “prohibited advertising content.” The first category bans advertising that is “political.”
The policy includes this definition of political advertising: “Advertising that addresses, promotes, or opposes a candidate or candidate(s) for public office, a political party, a ballot measure, any proposed or contemplated legislation, rule, or regulations, or any other action, inaction, prospective action, or policy of a government entity or of an elected or appointed official.”
The policy also bans “advertising that is false, misleading or deceptive.”
Noem, a Republican, said in her video that “Democrats in Congress refuse to fund the federal government, and because of this, many of our operations are impacted. We will continue to do all that we can to avoid delays that will impact your travel. And our hope is that Democrats will soon recognize the importance of opening the government.”
The airport authority’s board voted to amend its advertising policy last month to specifically prohibit certain types of ads, including those that are political, religious, libelous, obscene or profane.
The board acted after a Syracuse lawyer who specializes in workplace discrimination and sexual harassment cases sued the airport authority for
refusing to put up a billboard
advertising her services to travelers.
Lawyer
Megan Thomas
alleged in a complaint filed in federal court that the authority breached a contract and violated her First Amendment and other constitutional rights when it refused to put up a billboard advertising her services to airport travelers.
Thomas wanted to pay for an ad that states, “When HR called it ‘harmless flirting...’ We called it EXHIBIT A.” The ad included a picture of Thomas.
After the airport authority initially approved the ad, airport management told Thomas to “soften” its language so it would not upset men, she said. Thomas said the authority also told her that “local politicians” might find the ad offensive.
In the case of Noem’s video, Syracuse is among about a dozen airports nationwide – including Buffalo, Albany and Westchester County in New York – that decided this week not to air the video in their terminals.
The TSA and President Trump’s administration, to date, have not threatened to punish airports that don’t air the video.
But the administration has taken aggressive action this year to punish institutions, including state and local governments, by canceling federal funding for those who don’t go along with Trump’s priorities.
Syracuse’s airport has relied on tens of millions of dollars from the federal government in recent years to support modernization and expansion projects.
The
aid for Syracuse’s airport includes $27.3 million from the infrastructure bill
passed by Congress in 2021.
Federal judge refuses to pause ruling that Sarcone is unlawfully serving as top prosecutor in Upstate NY
Job losses in Syracuse and Upstate NY reveal depth of Trump’s slashing of federal workforce
Judges fire Trump loyalist who was top federal prosecutor in Upstate NY; SU alum appointed to replace him
Sarcone changes job title again amid challenge to his job as top federal prosecutor in Upstate NY
After 3 days in Minneapolis, a Syracuse minister is inspired: ‘We need to ramp up’
Mark Weiner
Mark Weiner is the Washington correspondent for Syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. He has four decades of experience reporting on issues important to Central New York. You can reach him at 571-970-3751.
mweiner@syracuse.com