By
Mark Weiner | mweiner@syracuse.com
Washington – The federal government has approved a $9.3 million grant for
Centro
to buy new buses for its planned rapid transit lines, bringing a
massive overhaul of bus service in Syracuse
a step closer to reality.
Centro said it will use the money to buy nine custom-designed buses for two bus rapid transit lines (BRT) that it wants to open in 2028 as part of the biggest transformation of public transportation in Syracuse in decades.
The two BRT lines would cross Syracuse in an X-shape, forming the foundation of a new route system aimed at moving people to work or school faster.
Centro plans to use the federal money to buy buses that will run on compressed natural gas and will be built specifically for BRT service, said Steve Koegel, a Centro spokesman.
U.S. Rep. John Mannion, D-Geddes, announced the grant Monday in Syracuse alongside Mayor Ben Walsh and Mayor-elect Sharon Owens.
Centro is finishing a $35 million redesign of its service in Syracuse and its suburbs, with BRT serving as the centerpiece of a system aimed at making fewer stops and serving in-demand areas more frequently.
The redesign’s primary goal is to offer better service to low-income riders who are most dependent on public transportation.
Centro says the new system will take people to jobs in downtown Syracuse, Destiny USA and at local colleges and hospitals faster than its existing service.
The goal is to help transport low-skilled workers to entry-level jobs in Syracuse, where more than 75% of bus riders don’t have access to a car and the
poverty rate is among the highest
in the nation.
One of the new rapid transit routes would extend from Syracuse University through the downtown Centro hub, connecting to Destiny USA and the William F. Walsh Regional Transportation Center on Syracuse’s North Side. There would be 15 stops.
The other route would extend from Syracuse’s Eastwood neighborhood, carrying passengers along James Street to the Centro hub. The buses would continue down South Avenue to Onondaga Community College. The line would have a total of 18 stops.
RECOMMENDED
Syracuse spring football preview: Answering your questions on QBs, coaches and fresh faces (podcast)
Mar. 20, 2026, 9:50 a.m.
School closings in Central NY: Delays for a second day this week (Wednesday March 18)
Mar. 18, 2026, 9:18 p.m.
Buses on the two rapid transit routes would run every 12 to 15 minutes along existing city streets, without dedicated bus lanes. Centro plans to use technology that would keep lights green until buses can pass through busy intersections.
Centro plans to spend $35 million to build infrastructure for the bus lines, including new curb cuts and bigger bus shelters that may be equipped with kiosks for customers to pay their fares in advance.
In addition to Mannion, U.S. Sens. Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, both Democrats from New York, advocated for Centro to receive the federal grant.
Mark Weiner
Mark Weiner is the Washington correspondent for Syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. He has four decades of experience reporting on issues important to Central New York. You can reach him at 571-970-3751.
mweiner@syracuse.com