Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

38°

Syracuse Code Enforcement looks to speed up its permit approval process

by Gary Robinson Jr.

Mon, April 14, 2025 at 11:51 PM
Updated Mon, April 14, 2025 at 11:52 PM
00:01
00:00
The Syracuse City Code Enforcement Department is looking to outside firms to speed up its permit approval process.They want one million more dollars, some of that to be spent to fix a system many say is too slow.
8
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
CODE ENFORCEMENT
PERMIT APPROVAL
CODE VIOLATIONS
BUDGET PLAN
INSPECTORS
ECONOMIC GROWTH
PROPERTY INSPECTIONS

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The Syracuse City Code Enforcement Department is looking to outside firms to speed up its permit approval process.

They want one million more dollars, some of that to be spent to fix a system many say is too slow.

The mayor's budget plan also calls for hiring two more code inspectors.

Whether a building or property is up to code is an issue that has become a central part of major news stories recently.

The death of an overnight janitor at the Syracuse Academy of Science Charter School in January revealed 8 code violations - and led to the building being shut down until they were resolved.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Last month's destructive fire at the former convent on the north side of the city revealed the city issued more than 15 code violations against the property owner.

The Department of Codes is asking for 2 more inspectors to ensure that buildings neighbors live and work in are safe and up to code.

In the past the Code Enforcement office has been under scrutiny for failing to issue enough code violations to property owners who neglect their properties, and they say it's time for a change.

Commissioner of Neighborhood & Business Development for the City of Syracuse Michael Collins said at the Department of Code Enforcement meeting Monday, “Without that money we will go backwards with how long it takes for us to issue permits. And so, what it means is we will slow the economic growth in Syracuse.”

Neighbors in Syracuse have been wanting management to improve on how they handle property inspections for quite some time now.

It appears to come at the expense of taxpayers.

A needed cost according to the head of the department.

Deputy Commissioner of Code Enforcement & Zoning Administration Jake Dishaw said, “Who wants to live next to a vacant house that isn’t getting cut. I mean we need this money man. This is huge.”

Syracuse Neighbor Jojo Dennis told us, “How are we going to actually implement an increase like that when everything is already inflated?”

In the budget the department of code enforcement is asking for $500,000 in third party plan review money to get projects assigned to third party firms which helps speed up the permitting process –which allows the city to process more permits.

“We have a handful of qualified firms that we are partnering with to help us do third party plan review. Which helps gets permits issued after which helps get shovels in the ground quicker,” said Dishaw.

Collins told us, “If you’re worried about the home that you are in and where you lay your head at night, you can’t turn around and be the good mom that you want to be. Be the good spouse you want to be, you can’t be out there looking for a good job or a better job than the one you’ve got when you got the distraction of the fact that you may have serious issues that threaten your ability to live where you live.”

READ THE COMMENTS (8)

Michael Collins told us that the questions he got from the council are exactly the questions he expected. With the council asking to demonstrate the value. Collins said that it’s a tight budget this year and they want to ensure that anything they are asking for is worth it.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.