By
Your Letters
To the Editor:
I was greatly disturbed to read about the $3 million revenue that the city is forgoing by having a grace period for the school zone speeding violations (
“60,000 drivers sped through Syracuse’s school zones last month,”
Oct. 2, 2025). Whose decision was that? Warning tickets will not be a sufficient deterrent to speeders. Fines will be.
Keep Watching
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
We live on James Street near Lincoln Middle School and have long been concerned about drivers who speed during school hours. So, I was thrilled when the technology for tracking speeders was installed this summer. I’ve witnessed great improvement in the responsibility of drivers since then. But there are still many speeders out there who are too unconcerned or, worse, too distracted to obey the law.
Ironically, I may be one of the beneficiaries of this grace period, as I did catch myself traveling around 5 mph over the limit one day before I reached the “End School Zone” sign. Realizing this shook me up and I would ungrudgingly pay the fine if there were one.
Additional to the safety of students are the fiscal implications of this grace period. If $3 million has already been lost to date, how many millions more will we lose by Nov. 2, when this grace period is scheduled to end? To paraphrase the quote famously attributed to Sen. Everett Dirksen: A million here, a million there, and pretty soon you’re talking real money.
Janet Berl Burman
Syracuse
Editorial cartoons for March 22, 2026: Iran war week 3, burned bridges, Trump’s favorite shoes
Syracuse missed opportunities to intervene at Nob Hill apartments (Editorial Board Opinion)
Florida offers test case for NY: Curbing lawsuits lowers insurance rates (Guest Opinion by Lauren Zelt)
Your Letters
Syracuse.com/The Post-Standard welcomes your opinions on topics of local interest. We publish timely letters and commentaries that advance the conversation about issues in the news. Send submissions to...
more
letters@syracuse.com