Councilors expressed concerns about Mayor Ben Walsh's proposed budget for the 2025-2026 fiscal year, which includes a $27 million deficit and a property tax hike, after Walsh presented it to the council in April.
Claire Harrison
By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh on Monday delivered dozens of formal objections to much of the
$16 million
in spending cuts city lawmakers made to his budget proposal, but he agreed to remove a property tax rate increase.
The mayor’s vetoes would restore to the budget $13 million cut by the Syracuse Common Council. That includes all of the $3.5 million the council removed from the city police budget and $2.4 million cut from the fire department.
He’s also vetoing about $1.5 million in spending cuts the council made to code enforcement, permit review and outside legal services — items that Walsh said are key in the city’s effort to address the shortage of quality, affordable housing.
The mayor is vetoing most council cuts to the public works and parks departments, along with a $1 million cut to funding for a three-year city property
revaluation
project aimed at reducing inequity in assessments.
Walsh left 37 of the council’s 82 budget amendments unchanged, including the one that shrank the property tax levy increase, which removed a projected 2% tax rate increase. Under the mayor’s proposal, the yearly tax bill for a $100,000 assessed value property would have increased by $60.
“Through these reductions the need for an increase in the tax rate is eliminated,” Walsh said in a news release. “This measured approach results in a budget that achieves the Council’s goals of maintaining the tax rate and lowering spending. It also ensures that no employee loses their job, invaluable city services are maintained at their current levels, and we protect the quality of life for our constituents.”
Councilors unanimously approved 82 budget amendments at a special meeting May 8 before adopting a final budget that cut yearly spending. While holding budget public hearings with department heads throughout April, the council also commissioned a review by a private accounting firm, The Bonadio Group, to help find areas to cut costs. The Walsh administration has described that report, released after the council voted, as a hastily assembled and superficial review.
But for one of Walsh’s vetoes, the Bonadio report was cited. He’s looking to restore a $5-per-year water rate increase that council removed and paid for by drawing from the water reserve fund. The accounting firm suggested a water rate increase was prudent to balance water department expenses and revenues.
After a fiery press conference the day council voted on the budget, Walsh said
last week
that he wanted to try to find compromises with the council during his objection review process. He initiated a meeting with council President Pro Tempore Pat Hogan and Taxation and Finance Committee Chair Corey Williams on Wednesday.
But Hogan on Thursday said the council had
little interest in reconsidering
its amendments and would likely override any vetoes. A big driver of the council’s budget moves was concern that city spending levels were not sustainable.
Walsh had proposed using about $27 million in reserves. The city expects to have about $120 million in that rainy day fund when the new fiscal year starts on July 1. With its cuts, council had brought the draw on reserves down to about $14.4 million.
Walsh vetoed the $14.4 million draw because the city charter requires mayoral objections be applied to the full amount of a budget amendment. If he had kept that reduced amount of fund balance use in place but the council decided not override some of his vetoes, that could trigger a tax rate increase. Instead, there’s now a scenario in which the tax rate could decrease if the council allowed the $27 million projected draw to go into effect.
The council can now consider Walsh’s objections at its May 27 regular meeting, or it could call a special meeting after that date but before June 2. They can override his vetoes with six votes.
Walsh said during a news conference Monday that he’s had conversations with individual councilors and some have told him they’re open to reconsidering cuts. But he declined to say who those councilors are or how many could potentially vote against overrides.
“I’m not optimistic enough to be counting votes yet,” he said.
Hogan said Monday that he’s probably not going to change his mind, but that he and the rest of the council will give Walsh’s response fair consideration.
“We’ll talk about it after everyone’s had a chance to go through it,” he said.
Mayor 2025 Budget Objections
by
jlammers
on Scribd
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Syracuse’s mayoral primary was a landslide. Is it a wakeup call for old guard Democrats?
Crews will start removing dozens of trees this month at historic Syracuse park
Pat Hogan: ‘I’m not going anywhere’ despite overwhelming Syracuse mayoral primary loss
After 50 years in trenches of Syracuse government, Pat Hogan wants his shot at command
We asked Syracuse’s mayoral candidates to grade Mayor Ben Walsh from A-F
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.