By
Jon Moss | jmoss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — A
“suspicious” box
that prompted the evacuation of Syracuse City Hall Monday was a noise monitoring device related to the Interstate 81 project, officials said.
The discovery of the box in a tree caused Syracuse police to block off streets around City Hall. They brought in a small drone and a robot to try to figure out if the box was dangerous.
The device was strapped to a tree across from City Hall to collect baseline noise data, according to a statement from Elizabeth Parmley, the engineer in charge of the reconstruction of I-81 in Syracuse.
A contractor for the state Department of Transportation installed the monitoring device, which consists of a microphone duct-taped to a box, last Thursday, Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh said.
TeNesha Murphy, a spokesperson for the transportation department, said several monitoring devices were placed near Interstate 81. All are similar in appearance and are set to be taken down Tuesday.
“The city of Syracuse was notified and approved the installation of the noise monitors and were provided with general locations of where they would be placed,” she said.
Walsh would not say whether city officials knew that the monitoring device would be placed in a tree at Montgomery and East Water streets.
“There has been communication over quite a bit of time between New York State DOT and city officials as to where and when these devices would be placed,” he said. “But, again, this one did catch us by surprise.”
Parmley said the transportation department is working with the city to prevent “future occurrences of this nature.”
The noise monitoring devices are only a small part of
the $2.25 billion projec
t to tear down the elevated Interstate 81 viaduct. Construction on the project will continue through 2028.
A person noticed the box at about 11:30 a.m. Monday and notified emergency crews, according to Deputy Police Chief Mark Rusin.
City Hall was evacuated at 11:55 a.m. and nearby streets were closed.
Walsh said it was quickly determined that the box was likely a sound monitoring device. Officials then began reaching out to various city, county and state departments, as well as local research institutions, to see who owned the box.
City Hall will re-open for business Tuesday, Walsh said.
Staff writer Michelle Breidenbach contributed reporting.
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week
Binge ‘Someone’s Hunting Us,’ a podcast about a serial killer and the women who took him down
Onondaga Community College briefly locked down; student found with paintball gun
Several departments battle large house fire in Cayuga County
An Upstate NY corrections officer claimed $70K in injuries, but surveillance cameras told a different story
Jon Moss
Jon Moss is a breaking news reporter at Syracuse.com/The Post-Standard. He previously wrote for the Pittsburgh Union Progress and Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, focusing on politics and housing. He graduated in...
more
jmoss@syracuse.com