By
Don Cazentre | dcazentre@nyup.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — The city of Syracuse has won a court order that it says shuts down a North Side business accused of operating as an illegal cannabis/marijuana shop for over a year.
The
injunction
issued June 18 by State Supreme Court Justice James Murphy involves
The Herbal Center
at 916 N. Salina St.
Keep Watching
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
The order prohibits the business from selling cannabis, offering it as a gift in exchange for other purchases, or allowing on-site consumption.
Murphy held a bench trial in which he heard testimony
in the case
before concluding that the business was “knowingly and defiantly” selling cannabis without obtaining a state license.
He also found that some marijuana sold at the shop exceeded the state’s legal limits for THC, the psychoactive compound in cannabis.
The Herbal Center argued the city exceeded its authority in trying to shut down the business. The business has also claimed it was operating as a private club. Murphy rejected both claims.
Murphy also ordered three separate $10,000 fines to be paid by The Herbal Center; its owner, John Vanfossen; and 916 North Salina LLC, which owns the property.
In his ruling, Murphy said both Vanfossen and the property owner provided testimony that was “not credible.”
But the city never proved its claims that the owners had knowledge of the illegal sales, said
Brady O’Malley
of the Nave Law Firm, who represented the defendants at the trial.
O’Malley said the defendants are “considering their options,” including a possible appeal. He also questioned the characterization in a city news release that THC was put “out of business” by the court ruling.
“The ruling prohibits something that is already against the law,” O’Malley said. “It did not shut the business and we argue that no evidence was presented that the defendants were knowingly engaged in any unlawful activity.”
O’Malley also noted that a counter lawsuit in the matter, in which the landlord argues the city is exceeding its authority, has not been settled. A hearing on that suit is scheduled for July, with Murphy also presiding.
The city has been trying for several years to clamp down on illegal weed sales,
with mixed success
. Its initial attempts were based on its code enforcement powers.
State and local governments have stumbled for years over how and whether to crack down on unlicensed sellers. Legal weed shop operators across the state say that failure contributed to a robust black market which hurt their businesses.
The city’s attempts to shut The Herbal Center included use of a private investigator who entered and posed as a customer.
Private investigator Doug Amann reported he found evidence that The Herbal Center was offering paid memberships, selling cannabis products and providing a space to consume them. Murphy heard testimony from Amann and found it to be “credible.”
In 2022, Syracuse passed a local law that attempted to strengthen its effort to shut down such businesses. That law was part of its case against The Herbal Center.
“Operations like The Herbal Center are dangerous to public health and safety, undermine the state’s efforts to provide residents with safe recreational cannabis, and hurt legitimate businesses that are following the rules,” Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh said in a news release about Murphy’s injunction. “This case demonstrates the city‘s determination to protect our neighborhoods from businesses that operate illegally.”
But O’Malley said he thinks there should be an audit questioning why the city is spending what he called “an obscene amount of time and resources” on these cases. He argues there are bigger crimes and more important issues that need attention.
RECOMMENDED
Syracuse.com’s 2026 spring media day boys lacrosse coach poll: Who’s primed for a breakout season?
Mar. 20, 2026, 2:43 p.m.
Drivers wrongfully ticketed under new school-zone camera program (Good Morning CNY for March 23)
Mar. 23, 2026, 10:54 p.m.
On its Facebook page
, The Herbal Center lists a separate location at 612 Oswego St. in Liverpool and in a recent post indicates another at 110 W. Manlius St. in East Syracuse. The post also says a Central Square location is “coming soon.”
The city of Syracuse won a court order to prohibit illegal cannabis sales at The Herbal Center, 916 N. Salina St.
Don Cazentre
Don Cazentre writes for
NYup.com
,
syracuse.com
and The Post-Standard. Reach him at
dcazentre@nyup.com
, or follow him at
NYup.com
or
Facebook
.
Don Cazentre
Don Cazentre is a veteran reporter at syracuse.com and NYUP.com. He covers a variety of topics, including food and dining, beer, wine and distilled spirits, casinos and gambling, and marijuana legalization. He...
more
dcazentre@syracuse.com