Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

36°

Syracuse officials: Clear your fire hydrants, move vehicles off roads amid heavy snow

by Matthew Benninger

Tue, December 30, 2025 at 2:29 PM
Updated Wed, December 31, 2025 at 1:28 AM
(PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)
6
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
SNOWSTORM
FIRE HYDRANTS
SNOW REMOVAL
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
PUBLIC SAFETY
EMERGENCY RESPONSE
MAYOR WALSH

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse City Officials provided an update on the city's response to the heavy snow that fell Monday night and into Tuesday.

Syracuse Fire Chief Michael Monds and incoming Syracuse Police Chief Mark Rusin pleaded with Syracuse residents to adhere to the city's snow rules.

Chief Monds said that the city has 5,500 fire hydrants. He said that people with a hydrant in front of their house should be shoveling snow out of a 3 to 5-foot space so that firefighters can utilize it in case of a fire. Monds said his department is working on getting them cleared. He also advised that people clear a path to their hydrant as well.

He asked people to clear their sidewalks from their front door or back door. He said this will help firefighters get into people's homes faster in case of emergencies. Monds also said people should clear any outdoor vents so that carbon monoxide and other gases do not get trapped in people's homes.

Chief Rusin said the Syracuse Police Department has extra patrols investigating illegally parked vehicles on Monday.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

He said parking in snowstorms is usually a "major issue." In November, Syracuse activated its overnight parking restrictions. These restrictions ban vehicles from being parked on roads during overnight hours. The restriction is to increase snowplow efficiency and maintain safety.

Rusin also demanded that people clear all snow from their vehicles.

"One thing you see a lot is people will clear off their windshields, but you have to make sure you clear off the top of your car," said Rusin. "You come to an abrupt stop and all of a sudden,n that snow covers your windshield and your windshield wipers aren't able to take control. You then have zero visibility."

Rusin said people should only be on the road if it's necessary, advising people that they should wait another day to do their errands.

Monds and Rusin said people also need to move over to the side of the road if they see a firetruck or police car.

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh said that the city has 30 vehicles and equipment out trying to clear city roads. He said it is a lot of work for the city's Department of Public Works, with its drivers working 12-hour shifts.

"This is the largest storm in many years," said Walsh. He added, "I think sometimes we take for granted the snow response we have here. What we're seeing out here right now would bring most cities to their knees."

Mayor Walsh said people should be staying home and not driving in the snow.

A snow safety alert was issued for Syracuse on Monday evening. Around a foot of snow was dumped onto the city, with several more inches expected to fall in the evening hours.

READ THE COMMENTS (6)

For the latest on the forecast, follow this link.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
The Easiest Way to Get Your Passport in 2025.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Drone drops knives, drugs and cell phone inside fence at Marcy Correctional Facility
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Breathalyzer company under security breach; cars unable to move
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.