Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

41°

EY's private meeting with Syracuse city leaders raises questions on payroll modernization

by Matt Mulcahy

Fri, May 2, 2025 at 12:14 AM
Updated Fri, May 2, 2025 at 12:14 AM
00:01
00:00
5
VIEW ALL PHOTOS
Firebarn Community Center in Strathmore neighborhood of Syracuse.
3
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
EY
PAYROLL MODERNIZATION
ADVANCED IT
MAYOR BEN WALSH
TECHNOLOGY CONSULTING
WHISTLEBLOWER
AUDIT

Syracuse, N.Y. -- A private meeting in the City of Syracuse’s Strathmore neighborhood between city leaders and global consultant EY (Ernst & Young) raises new questions about how taxpayer dollars were spent on the information technology project known as Payroll Modernization. The administration of Mayor Ben Walsh spent $8.1 million over five years and the project is not complete.

The brainstorming meeting took place over two days in October of 2022. It happened inside the Firebarn community center in Onondaga Park. EY created colorful power point graphics for what it calls a ‘wavespace’ session. They invited top leaders in the Walsh administration to brainstorm how EY and the city could work together for a tech-based future.

Among the senior leaders invited: Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens and Chief Administrative Officer Frank Caliva. Mayor Ben Walsh gave opening remarks to get the session going.

Other city leaders who were part of the ‘wavespace’ session, according to documents from the event: City Attorney Susan Katzoff, Director of Assessment Matthew Oja, Chief Policy Officer Greg Loh and Director of Digital Services Kelsey May. Several others were included.

Eight EY consultants and executives were included in the meeting including: regional head Lou Mosher and Steve Huebner, Principal in Technology Consulting.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Emails obtained by CNYCentral indicate immediately following the Firebarn sessions. Mosher and Huebner were directly involved in coordinating meetings with the city’s digital team to bring EY on board for the payroll modernization initiative.

One person not invited to the payroll modernization brainstorming session with EY was Susan Fahrenkrug, the owner of Advanced IT. That’s the company Mayor Walsh said was hired by the city to manage the payroll modernization project over EY. Fahrenkrug is the whistleblower who told the city last fall that her small tech company was used by EY as a ‘pass-through’ to get in the door. “I was surprised that EY was involved and giving presentations and timelines even before my contract with the city was signed for the payroll modernization project,” Susan Fahrenkrug said.

Just three months earlier Advanced IT had been propositioned by EY to work together on business with the city. EY was interested in Advanced IT because it already had been selected after a Request for Proposals for general information technology services in Syracuse. Emails reveal EY pushing Advanced IT to be the primary on the contract for payroll modernization.

A separate batch of emails show the direct communication in the summer of 2022 between EY and Digital Services Director Kelsey May. The two parties were planning the October session at the Firebarn without including Advanced IT in the communications. “They didn't want me to find out that presentations and discussions were ongoing prior to my contract with the city,” Fahrenkrug said.

Mayor Walsh terminated EY’s contract with the city at the end of January of this year. Chief Administrative Officer Frank Caliva also left the administration. But questions linger about why EY needed Advanced IT as the primary on the contract.

Former Budget Director Tim Rudd said Caliva told him the reason on November 6th after the whistleblower had dropped off ‘the book’ the detailed much of what wrong with the project. Tim Rudd described what Caliva told him that day. “Somebody from EY called me and they said they had a non-compete with Oracle, and they couldn't do above a certain dollar threshold with the city of Syracuse because of that relationship. They needed a pass-through vendor, and I accommodated them,” Rudd said referring to Caliva’s explanation.

Syracuse Common Councilor Corey Williams chairs the Finance Committee. He has led the initiative for the common council to hired Foxpointe to deliver an audit of all of the city’s software and technology systems. When asked whether EY served the city well, Williams answered. “I’m not going to comment on that.”

The audit from Foxpointe is due, in full, in mid-May. The auditor has already interviewed Advanced IT and members of the city’s technology departments.

Syracuse council scrutinizes $8.1M payroll upgrade as delays and costs mount --Apri 14, 2025

Consultants, waivers, lack of bids relied on during incomplete overhaul of Syracuse I.T. -- April 11, 2025

New York Attorney General reviewing contract controversy at Syracuse City Hall -- Mar. 5, 2025

Whistleblower disputes Syracuse Mayor's facing in contract controversy -- Feb. 19, 2025

READ THE COMMENTS (3)

Contract controversy leads to shakeup at Syracuse City Hall -- Feb. 10, 2025




  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Asbestos Exposure Can Haunt You Years Later
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
How To Drain Lymph Flui ds In Ankles And Legs? It's Simple
Limpansa
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
OCC put on lockdown because of threat; turns out to be paintball gun
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.