Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

37°

Senate debates SAVE Act amendments

Senators debate amendments to the SAVE America Act.

WATCH
Syracuse Police Chief shares SPD's response to "Public Saftey trends" in Armory Square"

by CNY Central Staff

Sun, July 20, 2025 at 10:28 PM
Updated Sun, July 20, 2025 at 10:43 PM
A SPD cruiser on Alvord Street. (June 17, 2025) (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)

7
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
POLICE CHIEF
PUBLIC SAFETY
ARMORY SQUARE
PBA
PROACTIVE POLICING
COMMUNITY SAFETY
LAW ENFORCEMENT

The Syracuse Police Benevolent Association and the Police Chief of the Syracuse Police Department have made a new round of social media posts. Following a July 13th post from the Syracuse PBA regarding what they called a chaotic weekend downtown from July 11th and 12th.

Read more: 'Nothing short of chaos': Police Union leader defends vague Armory Square Facebook post

The Syracuse PBA put out another post updating neighbors about how the past weekend went in Armory Square on Facebook. On Sunday afternoon, the PBA posted the following.

An UNBELIEVABLE performance by the PBA membership this past weekend in Armory Square! Friday night was quiet, but Saturday night was LOADED with patrons, and the streets were FLOODED with cops!! However, it was clear, the word was out! Between the effective public messaging from the PBA, and the hard-nosed policing from the membership, Armory Square improved from last weekend. Law abiding citizens thanked us for our service, and gangbangers were few and far between. And the perps that did act up were met with swift action from our members, as there was zero tolerance. Open container on a sidewalk? Arrested and ticket issued. Littering? Arrested and ticket issued. One perp decided to ride his E-Bike on the sidewalk into people who were walking, and our members latched on to that perp, only to find a loaded handgun on his person! As long as the City/Department continues to provide the necessary resources to keep the community and members safe, the hard-nosed, proactive policing continues throughout the entire summer, and the membership sticks together as a teamI know that we will Make Armory Square Safe Again!
Read more: NAACP calls out Syracuse Police Union President's social media post as an 'injustice'
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

On Sunday evening, the Syracuse police department gave a statement credited to Police Chief Joe Cecile. In the statement, Cecile informs the community about what the police department has been doing regarding "The public safety trends in Armory Square."

I would personally like to thank all of the SPD members who worked Armory Square this past Friday and Saturday, as well as our Law Enforcement partners who assisted. Public safety trends in Armory Square, and elsewhere in the city, will always occur from time to time. And they will always be addressed as well. Not by Facebook posts, but by the hardworking officers, detectives, sergeants, and commanders of SPD. When officers and business owners made us aware of this trend several weeks ago—a trend of late night – early morning groups forming block parties and loitering until five am in Armory Square—it was they, the commanders who developed a strategy to address it, and it was SPD’s officers, detectives, and supervisors, along with our LE partners that implemented it. With clockwork precision! I was there for a large part of the evening and morning on both Friday and Saturday and witnessed exactly what I knew I would witness. Highly proactive cops in the midst of large crowds and dynamic situations, performing with the utmost poise and professionalism. I salute you all. This is why we are one of the premier police agencies in the nation, and why I have been honored to wear SPD’s shield for almost forty years.
Read more: Syracuse Police Union President: 'De-escalation is out the window' in Armory Square

On Friday Cecile released another statement advising his officers to not adhere to President Joe Moran's post.

READ THE COMMENTS (7)

Chief Cecile said the Syracuse Police Department's policies remain as is, noting that Moran has no authority is waiving them.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.