By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Motorists with unpaid parking tickets in Syracuse could get a chance to clean their slates while avoiding late penalties.
Mayor Ben Walsh is seeking Syracuse Common Council authorization to conduct a parking ticket amnesty program in November.
If approved, an amnesty period would run from Nov. 3 to Nov. 21 for all tickets issued prior to the start of the program. The deal is simple: paying off the base amount of the ticket and the mandatory $5 New York state surcharge wipes away all late fees.
Late fees start with a doubling of the base fine amount, which ranges from $25 to $100 depending the violation, after 20 days from the violation. An additional $20 penalty is added after 30 days and another $20 after 75 days. A person with a $100 ticket that’s 76 days or more past due could save $140 by paying during the amnesty period.
The Walsh administration is proposing the plan in the hopes of generating additional revenue.
There are currently about 140,000 unpaid parking tickets on the city’s books issued to the owners of 86,000 registered vehicles, the mayor’s office said. The fines on those tickets amount to roughly $5.3 million and late penalties total $6 million.
The Syracuse Common Council’s Finance Committee will meet at 11 a.m. Monday to discuss the proposal. The council could vote on it at the 1 p.m. regular meeting.
Finance Committee Chair Corey Williams said at a study session Wednesday that the council generally supports the idea.
“We just want to make sure that we know what exactly we’re doing and how we’re doing it,” he said.
Syracuse last held a parking amnesty program in September 2020. According to the administration’s response
city auditor’s review
of parking collections published a few years later, that amnesty program generated almost $1 million in revenue.
Then-City Auditor Nader Maroun recommended against holding future amnesty programs, though. He wrote that amnesty “incentivizes people in the future who have amassed large amounts of unpaid tickets to wait for an amnesty program to pay. This means that amnesty programs may produce short-term gains at the expense of long-term consequences.”
The city held prior amnesty programs in 2003 and 1996.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com