Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

45°

'Paused in progress': Mayor Walsh passes the torch to Sharon Owens at his final briefing

by Stevie Ali

Thu, December 11, 2025 at 10:44 PM
Updated Fri, December 12, 2025 at 1:31 PM
Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh stands at the podium for his final community briefing, alongside incoming mayor Sharon Owens. (CNY Central)
9
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
MAYOR WALSH
SHARON OWENS
LICENSE PLATE READERS
FLOCK SAFETY
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
PARKING AMNESTY
ONLINE SERVICES
I-81 PROJECT

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh delivered his final community briefing on Thursday, highlighting projects across the city.

There was some relief for Syracuse drivers discussed in Walsh's briefing. The mayor reminded attendees that the window to take advantage of the city's parking amnesty program has been extended to January 2, giving residents an opportunity to clear old tickets at a discount. Visitors to the online portal can look up their own names, add open invoices to their carts, and pay pending charges. They can even pay pending charges for other city residents, "if you want to help them out," says Mayor Walsh.

Mayor-elect Sharon Owens noted that even more of the city's services are now available online. Applications for business licenses, right-of-way permits, and zoning permits can all be submitted and managed through another online portal. Owens says the Central Permit Office will host two webinars next week to train applicants on the system.

Credit is due to the office of Code Enforcement, which served as a case study in the latest edition of an academic text from Solano Press. Curious readers can seek out Strategic Code Enforcement.

Another achievement: the Walsh administration's building campaign. Last year, the outgoing mayor set a goal of 2,500 housing units completed or in-progress by the end of his term. Today, he revealed that the city did even better than expected.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

"We have 1,215 units complete, we have an additional 1,936 units underway, for a total of 3,151 units-- so we not only met our promise, [but] we exceeded it by about 25%," says Walsh. "Housing is one of those things that we have influence over, but not full control over-- we need our critical partners." Chief among them, the mayor says, were the Department of Neighborhood and Business Development, Home HeadQuarters, Jubilee Homes-- and Governor Hochul's Homes and Community Renewal team, which provided "unprecedented" resources for owner-occupied, single-family housing development.

The efforts go beyond freestanding homes. "We're not just investing in one type of housing. We're building new single-family, owner-occupied houses, we're building two-family houses, and we're building high-density, residential rental homes as well."

At the end of the mayor's presentation was a benediction for his successor, who was by his side today and every day since his inauguration. "There's nobody more qualified for this job-- frankly, much more qualified than I was when I started this job. I have no doubt you are going to hit the ground running, and do amazing things in the city of Syracuse. So I just want to say congratulations to you, Mayor-elect Owens-- we're gonna see each other again, but I want to formally and publicly thank you for your incredible public service over the past 8 years, and for your willingness to continue to serve in the coming years ahead."

After Walsh, incoming Mayor Owens thanked her predecessor for their long partnership, through good and bad hair days. "We, foundationally, have the same belief system, and I think that's important-- but we are very much different people," Owens says. "We've done an amazing job preparing this city for the next phase," including the I-81 project and accompanying revitalization efforts, though progress has stalled in some places.

"A pastor friend of mine said to me one day, when he was [in traffic] waiting and I was in my car waiting, and we're on the Bluetooth talking to each other: 'you are paused in progress,' that is what we are. We're not used to this kind of traffic, we're not used to these kinds of detours... we're 'paused in the progress' that we're looking forward to in Syracuse. I'm really looking at the focus of moving the human condition in our city, to match the physical condition in our city."

"It is going to be different, it is going to be change-- but it all is working for all of our collective good, and I'm excited about it."

READ THE COMMENTS (9)

The mayor-elect says her senior team will be announced "between this week and next," though her police chief, Mark Rusin, has been named, and she intends to retain fire chief Michael Monds. Owens will be sworn in on Saturday, January 3 at the Landmark Theatre.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Occupational Asbestos Exposure and Lung Canc er 
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
We've Won Over $5.7 Bill ion For Asbestos Victims
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.