By
Darian Stevenson | DStevenson@syracuse.com
Anne Hayes | ahayes@syracuse.com
Update, 3 p.m. news conference:
The “suspicious” box that caused the evacuation of Syracuse City Hall was installed by the state Department of Transportation, according to Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh.
The device was installed to measure ambient sound
, the mayor said. They normally are put on utility poles, he said.
City officials are looking into whether the state notified the city about this device, Walsh said.
After the device was spotted, city hall was evacuated at about 11:55 a.m. and nearby streets were all shut down.
Update:
A Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard photo shows the brown box attached to a tree near City Hall has a microphone attached to it.
Syracuse police plan a news conference shortly.
A microphone was duct-taped to the package that the police are considering suspicious on Monday, Sept. 29, 2025
Scott Trimble | STrimble@syracuse.com
Syracuse police are using a small drone and a robot to investigate a suspicious box found strapped to a tree near City Hall on Monday.
City Hall remains evacuated and streets nearby are closed.
The box is strapped on a tree next to Across the Hall Cafe on East Water Street.
Original article
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse City Hall was evacuated Monday as police investigate a suspicious package found near the building, city officials said.
Streets around the city hall have been closed. Police shut down the intersection of East Water and Montgomery streets.
The public is being asked to avoid the area while police are on scene.
Across the Hall Cafe, which is near City Hall, closed temporarily after reports of an unidentified object outside, according to the business’s Facebook.
City Hall was evacuated at 11:55 a.m. City officials and staff have been moved to One Park Place.
Second man stabbed near Rescue Mission this week
Binge ‘Someone’s Hunting Us,’ a podcast about a serial killer and the women who took him down
Onondaga Community College briefly locked down; student found with paintball gun
Several departments battle large house fire in Cayuga County
An Upstate NY corrections officer claimed $70K in injuries, but surveillance cameras told a different story
Darian Stevenson
Darian Stevenson is a breaking news reporter for Syracuse.com, covering crime, public safety, and fast-moving stories across Central New York. She’s especially focused on reporting that highlights and impacts...
more
DStevenson@syracuse.com