By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — A bigger chunk of Syracuse can now subscribe to the municipal broadband service the city launched in a test area almost two years ago.
City and state officials this week said they’ve completed the expansion of the city’s Surge Link network, which is now available at a heavily reduced cost for low-income residents and at a market rate for other customers.
After
launching
the service as a pilot program in southwest neighborhoods in the fall of 2023, the city secured a $10.8 million grant from the state ConnectALL Municipal Infrastructure Program. That allowed it to build out the infrastructure to bring the service to the Valley, Skunk City, Washington Square, North Side, Prospect Hill and Hawley-Green neighborhoods.
Surge Link is a key part of Mayor Ben Walsh’s efforts to address the city’s high poverty rate. He hopes Surge Link can eventually be provided citywide.
“Access to reliable, affordable broadband is no longer a luxury, it is a necessity for education, healthcare, employment and civic participation,” Walsh said in a news release this week. “By bringing Surge Link to these key neighborhoods, we are ensuring that Syracuse residents have the tools they need to thrive in the digital economy.”
The city launched Surge Link in October 2023 using funds from the federal American Rescue Plan Act. It hired Geneva-based
Community Broadband Networks
LLC to build out the broadband network and manage the service.
Surge Link now provides 100 Mbps service to low-income residents for $14.99 per month. It started as a free service in the pilot area, but the city needed to start charging a small fee when Republicans in Congress blocked legislation to continue the federal Affordable Connectivity Program. This city has continued to use ARPA funds to keep the low-income rate in place.
To sustain the service going forward, it has launched a market rate option for customers who are not eligible for the low-income discount. That service costs $37 per month, which includes a wifi router and installation. By comparison, the 100 Mbps service that Spectrum offers in Syracuse is an introductory $30 per month rate with an additional $10 per month for wifi. Spectrum’s base rate grows to $50 monthly after a year.
The Surge Link pilot area currently has about 1,200 customers being served. The city’s goal is to connect at least 2,500 households in there and at least 4,700 additional households in the expansion area. City officials believe there’s a large base of market rate customers to tap into, with an estimated 4,900 additional households in the pilot area and 9,300 in the expansion area.
To learn more about Surge Link and subscribe, visit
syracusesurgelink.com
or call
Community Broadband Networks
at (315) 325-5000.
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com