Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

37°

Convent complex demolition could begin "very soon" as neighbors want to see progress

by Dale Ostrander

Tue, July 1, 2025 at 9:35 PM
Updated Tue, July 1, 2025 at 10:24 PM
00:01
00:00
The demolition of the former Maria Regina College remains stalled, leaving residents frustrated as the remnants of the St. Francis Convent building remain. (Photo by CNY Central)
3
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
DEMOLITION
CONVENT COMPLEX
HOUSING PROJECT
MARIA REGINA COLLEGE
PROPERTY NEGLECT
SYRACUSE
NEIGHBORS
FRUSTRATION

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The demolition of the former Maria Regina College remains stalled, leaving residents frustrated as the remnants of the St. Francis Convent building continue to stand months after a devastating fire in March. Plans to develop housing on the site have been delayed, with city representatives in ongoing discussions with current and future property owners to advance the project.

Read more: Community calls for action against owner of Convent Complex for property neglect

Mary Salibrici, a northside neighbor, expressed her frustration, saying, "I must walk by there three or four times a week and it still looks just as bad as it did three months ago. So it's heartbreaking, it's heartbreaking."

Mikell DiGiorgio, whose mother attended the convent school, shared similar sentiments: "You have, like, all these feelings of a piece of history that's gone. And then you feel like no one really wants to do anything to help clean it up and rectify what's been left behind."

Michael Collins, the Commissioner of Neighborhood and Business Development for Syracuse, remains optimistic that deconstruction could begin soon. He said, "We're in constant contact with both parties and we believe that they are very, very close to being able to finalize all the paperwork that they need to so that the demolition can go forward."

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

The project requires an agreement between current property owner Mark Congel and Home Leasing, the company aiming to redevelop the space into a 181-unit housing project. However, the delays have led to growing frustration among neighbors and local officials.

Read more: St. Francis Convent, damaged by massive fire, to be demolished

Syracuse Common Councilor Marty Nave criticized Congel's handling of the property, stating, "In my opinion, Mr. Congel showed his true colors. He neglected the property all those years and he didn't care. I think we should do what needs to be done and just send a bill to Mr. Congel."

Collins acknowledges that the city does have the ability to go in and demolish the building but wants to make sure that the demolition happens in a way that helps the future housing project become a reality instead of creating more barriers.

READ THE COMMENTS (3)

CNY Central has reached out late Tuesday evening to Home Leasing to learn more about where this project stands, and we will share their response once we have it right here.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
The Fed didn’t cut intere st rates. Here are 5 thing s to watch next.
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.