Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

37°

Senate debates SAVE Act amendments

Senators debate amendments to the SAVE America Act.

WATCH
Syracuse officials and residents question police union's portrayal of Armory Square safety

by Rachel Culver

Mon, July 14, 2025 at 11:16 PM
Syracuse police union's social media post sparks controversy over Armory Square safety (Photo by CNY Central).
8
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
POLICE UNION
ARMORY SQUARE
SAFETY
ARRESTS
DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS OWNERS
NIGHTLIFE

A social media post by the Syracuse Police Benevolent Association has raised concerns among city officials and residents about the portrayal of safety in Armory Square.

The post, shared hundreds of times, described the "chaotic current state" of the downtown area and highlighted 40 arrests and the recovery of five handguns over the weekend. However, it did not specify the nature of the arrests.

Syracuse Police Chief Joe Cecile clarified that the arrests were related to open containers and loitering, stating, "One guy that was arrested had, you know, a whole bottle of vodka. I'm sure he didn't walk out of a bar with that, he just brought it with him and was drinking. So, they're legitimate arrests, legitimate tickets that take care of a problem."

The police union's post also claimed that "perpetrators and gangbangers have infiltrated the bar scene on Friday and Saturday nights," a statement that Chief Cecile criticized.

"A post like this can affect business and those folks their businesses the taxes they pay all the patrons that come down there and eat dinner or get you know go and have a few drinks. That's what pays our salaries. So just got to be careful. It's just again. It wouldn't be it wouldn't be a post I would do," said Cecile.

Syracuse officials and residents question police union's portrayal of Armory Square safety

Local business owners and residents have expressed mixed feelings about the increased police presence.

Zakary George, manager at Nick’s Tomato Pie, said, "I think it was just kind of excessive the last couple of days. But with downtown Syracuse, when it gets chaotic, it really does."

For George, their is a certain frustration for the way in which he feels local leaders make decisions. "It seems like, you know, the people in charge make decisions here, which seem to be big decisions. And then it sets the balance off, and then they try to re-correct those decisions. And I think that's where the issues come in. It's a touchy, you know, downtown is touchy."

He emphasized the importance of maintaining a balance between public safety and preserving a vibrant nightlife, adding, "I don't want people to be afraid to come down here because I think sometimes we focus on the negative so much that we don't allow people to enjoy something."

READ THE COMMENTS (8)

The Syracuse Police Benevolent Association has not responded to requests for comment.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Lupus Rash in Pictures: How to Recognize and Treat It
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.