By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Despite a
last-minute move
by a pair of city lawmakers to delay enforcement, Syracuse school speed zone and red-light cameras will start generating fines next week.
A two-month grace period for the new surveillance technology ends Sunday, Nov. 2. Instead of warning tickets aimed at educating motorists about where to slow down during school hours, $50 fines will start for violators.
But not every location where signage and cameras were installed over the summer is live.
In fact, 10 have not been active during the grace period and will be relocated, city officials said Monday. When the new locations for those sites are finalized, they will also come with a grace period featuring warning tickets. Another three locations are inactive while adjustments to the boundaries of the school zone itself are contemplated. The city does yet have a timeline for when changes will be made.
Even with more than a third of the speed-camera locations not active during the warning phase in September and October, more than
95,300 violations
were flagged by the cameras and verified by police in September. The pace of violations slowed over time, however.
There were nearly double the number of tickets in the first half of the month compared with the second, a figure city officials believe shows that the warning letters helped curb speeding.
As those letters have arrived in residents’ mailboxes, the program has triggered complaints to some Syracuse common councilors about locations and visibility of the cameras, prompting a proposal ahead of Monday’s voting meeting to establish a two-month moratorium on enforcement.
Councilors Amir Gethers and Rasheada Caldwell introduced moratorium legislation, which also had support from Councilor Chol Majok.
“Safety is No. 1,” Caldwell said during Monday’s meeting. “But what we didn’t do here is have a process. The process didn’t get done right.”
Gethers said he shared that concern, but after speaking with Mayor Ben Walsh’s administration about its plans to adjust the camera network and include more grace periods for relocated sites, he decided to withdraw the proposal.
“I’m going to entrust that the administration does what they have promised us,” Gethers said.
Below are the current locations of the speed zone cameras, broken down by active sites where enforcement will begin, inactive sites that will be relocated and inactive sites in which the school zone boundary will be adjusted. Enforcement will also begin for the network of red-light cameras that are set up in or near school zones.
School speed-zone cameras (active):
Lemoyne Ave. – Montessori School
Grant Blvd. – Grant Middle School
Wadsworth St. – Webster Elementary School
Durston Ave. – Salem Hyde Elementary School
James St. – Lincoln Middle School
Oak St. – Dr. Weeks Elementary School
S. Salina St. – Clary Middle School
Newell St. – McKinley-Brighton School
W. Brighton Ave. – Danforth Middle School
S.
Geddes St. – Fowler High School
S. Geddes St. – Bellevue Elementary School
W. Kennedy St. – Beard-McCarthy School
S. Salina St. – Institute of Technology at Syracuse Central (ITC High School)
Shonnard St. – Seymour Dual Language Academy
James St. – Blessed Sacrament School
Original locations to be moved (not active):
W. Genesee St. – Porter Elementary School
W. Genesee St. – Frazer K–8 School
Valley Dr. – Van Duyn Elementary School
S. Salina St. – Meachem Elementary School
Butternut St. – Franklin Elementary School
Teall Ave. – Henninger High School
Stafford Ave. – Huntington K–8 School
E. Genesee St. – Nottingham High School
E. Colvin St. – Syracuse Latin School
S. State St. – Dr. King STEAM School
School zone boundary to be adjusted (not active):
RECOMMENDED
Mold, rodent droppings: The latest restaurant inspections for Onondaga County
Mar. 19, 2026, 2:34 p.m.
CNY police agencies trying to hire more than 100 officers, jailers gather for job fair
Mar. 17, 2026, 3:34 p.m.
Glenwood Ave. – Corcoran High School, Roberts Elementary School
Broad St. –Ed Smith Elementary School
Salt Springs Road – HW Smith Elementary School
Red-light cameras near schools:
Wadsworth St. and Lemoyne Ave.
Wadsworth St. and Grant Blvd.
Teall Ave. and Gray Ave.
Grant Blvd. and McChesney Ave.
Grant Blvd. and Pond St. / McChesney Park
James St. and Teall Ave.
James St. and Midler Ave.
Sunnycrest Rd. and Midler Ave.
Teall Ave. and Robinson St.
Butternut St. and Alvord St.
Wadsworth St. and Cadillac St.
West St. and Shonnard St.
Adams St. and Warren St.
Townsend St. and E Genesee St.
Geddes St. and Park Ave.
Geddes St. and Onondaga Ave.
Glenwood Ave. and S Salina St.
S. Salina St. and Elmhurst Ave,
S. Salina St. and W. Kennedy St.
S. Salina St. and Martin Luther King East
Valley Dr. and Fish Ave.
Valley Dr. and Seneca Turnpike
S Salina St. and Amidon Dr.
S Salina St. and Spaulding Ave.
S Salina St. and Newell St.
E Brighton Ave. and Midland Ave.
E Colvin St. and Comstock Ave.
E Genesee St. and East Ave.
E Genesee St. and Croly St. / Salt Springs Rd.
Geddes St. and Standart Ave.
James St. and Wilson Ave.
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com