By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Contractors will still be working on the building when the cutting-edge Syracuse STEAM High School opens its doors to 250 students just five weeks from now.
But school and municipal officials said Monday they are confident that New York state’s first regional high school will open on time for its inaugural freshman class.
“We have five and a half weeks left, which is just a race to the finish,’’ said Archie Wixson, facilities commissioner for Onondaga County, who is overseeing the project. The school will open on time, he said.
But builders will continue to work on the school renovation during the coming year – after school hours, if the work would be disruptive to students. All the work will be finished at the 122-year-old school in about six months, Wixson said.
The $100 million construction project is transforming a historic school building into a regional high school focused on science, technology, engineering, arts and math, or STEAM.
The school will include a robotics and animation lab, audio and visual production room, emulated clean room, a world-class auditorium and other areas to fit the nine concentrations students can choose from.
The school is part of the Syracuse City School District but is open to students in Onondaga, Cortland and Madison counties. The first freshman class will include 202 students from the Syracuse district, 30 from suburban districts and 18 from private and charter schools, officials said.
That’s a higher percentage of city students than officials anticipated. Eventually, the plan is to draw 60% of students from Syracuse and 40% from outside the city. The school will eventually house 1,000 students.
Mayor Ben Walsh
said he expects that interest in the STEAM School will grow outside the city once it is up and running.
“This is something new and innovative, so we expected that it would take some time to get to that ideal percentage of 60% city students and 40% suburban students,’’ Walsh said. “I mean, people are taking a bit of a leap of faith at this point. But we’re confident that the more people see what’s happening in this building, the more interest there’s going to be throughout the community.”
Walsh and other community leaders, including County Executive Ryan McMahon and city schools Superintendent Anthony Davis, led reporters on a brief tour of the building Monday. The group saw several classrooms that await just a few finishing touches to be ready for students. By opening day, Wixson said, contractors will be finished with the bottom two floors of the three-story building and part of the basement, including the cafeteria.
Builders are retaining many historic flourishes of the stately building, which was designed by famed architect Archimedes Russell.
Plans for the STEAM school have been under way since 2020, when then-
Gov. Andrew Cuomo
approved the project, for which the state will reimburse 98% of the construction cost. The opening was initially scheduled for the fall of 2021, but construction was delayed because of the pandemic and increased building costs.
McMahon and county legislators have backed the project, by bonding to pay for the construction among other things. The school district will pay off the bonds with state reimbursements.
McMahon said the unique school will play an important role in training graduates who will contribute to the region’s growing tech economy, including Micron Technology and other employers that are investing in the area.
“This is a big win, emotionally and psychologically, for the community,’’ McMahon said.
About 400 city school students applied for spots in the freshman class, Davis said. Of those, 202 were selected. Some 17 school districts outside the city are sending students to the school.
Students can concentrate their studies on areas including visual arts, entertainment engineering, performing arts, media technology and design, robotics automation, construction management, data analytics, business entrepreneurship and semiconductor microchip technology.
Former Corcoran High School principal Dan Straub is the school’s principal. There will be 40 teachers for the first class of 250 students, all but four of whom have been hired thus far, district officials said.
RECOMMENDED
Syracuse.com’s 2026 media day baseball coach poll: Most likely to have breakout season? (photos)
Mar. 20, 2026, 12:06 a.m.
School closings in Central NY: Delays for a second day this week (Wednesday March 18)
Mar. 18, 2026, 9:18 p.m.
Walsh said the STEAM school will be a model for other school districts to follow.
“This is, and will be, a world-class facility and a model for other schools and other school districts throughout the country,’’ he said.
Staff writer Tim Knauss can be reached at:
email
|
Twitter
| 315-470-3023.
Tim Knauss
Tim Knauss is a watchdog reporter on the public affairs team at Syracuse.com, with four decades of experience covering Central New York. Knauss has written about a variety of subjects recently including unfair...
more
tknauss@syracuse.com