Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Clear Investment says it's still committed to redeveloping dilapidated Skyline Apartments

by Dale Ostrander

Thu, April 3, 2025 at 6:06 PM
Clear Investment Group, however, claims the situation is a misunderstanding and insists it will continue renovations. With the hope to open units soon. (Photo by CNY Central)
6
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SKYLINE APARTMENTS
CLEAR INVESTMENT GROUP
SYRACUSE
RENOVATIONS
LEGAL ACTION
RECEIVERSHIP
TENANTS
VANDALISM

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The City of Syracuse is taking legal action against the owners of the former Skyline Apartments, citing ongoing deteriorating conditions at the complex.

The city has petitioned the New York Supreme Court to appoint a receiver to replace Clear Investment Group with the hopes of making the dilapidated building on James Street livable once again. This move follows reports of a burst water pipe that leaked millions of gallons over weeks or months.

READ MORE: Syracuse asks court to replace current redeveloper of Skyline Apartments with receiver

Clear Investment Group, however, claims the situation is a misunderstanding and insists it will continue renovations.

A spokesperson for Clear Management attributed some issues to vandalism incidents.

"We have always had a great relationship with the city," the spokesperson said.

Local housing advocates express skepticism.

"The tenants who were displaced were angry, angry at the Greens, angry at Clear that just had a lot of cute things to say but really delivered nothing for them," Executive Director of the Greater Syracuse Tenants Network Sharon Sherman said.

Alex Lawson, Policy Manager at CNY Fair Housing, noted a broader issue of property neglect in the city.

"You see similar issues across the city. You go two miles away, the Maria Regina campus just caught on fire last week, it's not a one-time thing," Lawson said.

Lawson also commented on the city's strategy. He said, "Receivership is one of the best things that the city can do. They can try to force the owner to make the investments they need to, with the threat of it maybe being taken away."

But Sherman expressed doubts about the effectiveness of appointing a receiver/

"I don't know a receiver who would take this over on behalf of the court. They can't rent out the property without those repairs," Sherman said.

READ THE COMMENTS (6)

Clear Management's full response to the city asking for a receiver is posted below:

Click here to view the PDF file







TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.