By
Your Letters
To the Editor:
Regarding the letter,
“Fencing to keep out homeless people is just ‘squeezing the balloon’ ”
(July 31, 2025):
I share the belief of Catholic Charities head Mike Melara that putting a fence at the end of Dickerson Street only serves to relocate the problems of the homeless men and women who congregate near the Rescue Mission.
Along with my neighbors on West Onondaga, I share his belief that “community input is critical when considering a project like (a drop-in center).”
The record suggests otherwise. Melara’s letter indicates that the conversations with Onondaga County regarding this center have been going on for six months. Since the dead of winter, officials and agencies have been planning this center, and in all that time, no one in the adjacent neighborhoods has been contacted. Communication early on in the process would have avoided this delay in services. Those who live, work, worship and play in close proximity to the Rescue Mission shelter have valuable insights and experiences to share. We ask that our voices be heard and our concerns taken seriously.
It is time for all of us to recognize and share the responsibility for the care of these people. On Dickerson Street, you will find needy and vulnerable people from all over Onondaga County and surrounding counties.
Every community in our county needs to step up and lend a hand.
Ed Griffin-Nolan
Syracuse
The writer owns a commercial building on West Onondaga Street.
Syracuse missed opportunities to intervene at Nob Hill apartments (Editorial Board Opinion)
Florida offers test case for NY: Curbing lawsuits lowers insurance rates (Guest Opinion by Lauren Zelt)
CBA leader: Athletics should teach kids to face difficulty, not avoid it (Guest Opinion by Matthew Keough)
Your Letters
Syracuse.com/The Post-Standard welcomes your opinions on topics of local interest. We publish timely letters and commentaries that advance the conversation about issues in the news. Send submissions to...
more
letters@syracuse.com