Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

35°

Syracuse Public Safety building could become apartments next to jail and courthouse

by Conor Wight

Mon, June 9, 2025 at 5:54 PM
Updated Mon, June 9, 2025 at 5:56 PM
The future for the Public Safety Building could be apartments, meaning tenants will have neighbors in the Onondaga County Justice Center jail and the Syracuse City Criminal Courthouse. (June 9, 2025) (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)
11
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
PUBLIC SAFETY BUILDING
APARTMENTS
ONONDAGA COUNTY
JAIL
COURTHOUSE
RFP PROCESS
CITY HALL

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — If all goes to plan, the Syracuse Public Safety building on State Street will be empty by this time next year.

The future for the building could be apartments, meaning tenants will have neighbors in the Onondaga County Justice Center jail and the Syracuse City Criminal Courthouse.

After nearly two years of construction efforts, city police and fire are now scheduled to move into a new headquarters as soon as January. In a move designed to be more efficient and cost effective than renovating the current HQ downtown, the city is going to lease space at an old factory at 1153 W. Fayette St. on the Near West Side bordering Tipperary Hill.

City Commissioner of Assessment Matt Oja said that Onondaga County is moving aggressively to ensure the two-acre property does not remain empty for long. While the city and county have joint ownership of the current Public Safety Building, the county is taking point on fielding a Request for Proposal (RFP) process.

The applicants are advised to include housing proposals, according to Oja.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

He said that colleagues in city hall have brought up a possible deterrent for would be renters; the building sits between the downtown jail and the courthouse. Oja said the multiple RFP responses so far demonstrate there is a market demand that should outweigh those concerns.

“I think it won't necessarily matter who the next-door neighbors are, it will matter that they are in a vibrant part of downtown,” Oja said.

Deputy Chief of Police Richard Shoff said that there’s growing excitement around the prospect of moving early next year. The problems he pointed to at the PSB also demonstrate the possible hurdles a new developer will face in attempting renovations.

“We’ve got dripping water, hanging wires and asbestos everywhere,” Shoff said.

Police and fire are currently evaluating what furniture may be salvageable and what needs to be purchased ahead of moving next year.

READ THE COMMENTS (11)

The January 2026 move in is a slight delay from the previously projection of November this year. The city will pay around $1.8 million in rent, which officials say is comparable to what they pay at the current headquarters on State Street downtown. Rent payments are meant to cover the cost of construction over time

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
How To Drain Lymph Flui ds In Ankles And Legs? It's Simple
Limpansa
|
SPONSORED
Best Ways to Drain Lymph Fluid in Ankles & Legs
Limpansa
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.