By
Julia Boehning | Contributing Writer
Syracuse, N.Y. -- Onondaga County is holding events this week to educate people about lead poisoning and lead exposure.
As part of
National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week
, which runs Oct. 19 to 25, the county is hosting several events focused on reducing lead hazards in the community.
The lineup includes an information session for families on how to prevent lead poisoning, a refugee health fair and a networking event for people working in construction. All are aimed at spreading awareness of lead’s harmful effects and sharing resources to keep residents safe.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says
no amount of lead exposure
is safe — especially for children.
In the first half of 2025,
around 10%
of kids tested in the city of Syracuse had elevated amounts of lead in their blood, according to data from the Onondaga County Health Department’s Lead Poisoning Prevention Program. Across the county, about 5% of kids tested had high levels of lead in the same time period.
In Syracuse,
about 14,000
homes
still receive tap water through lead pipes
.
Here’s a rundown of the events:
Information session
Onondaga County Executive Ryan McMahon and County Legislator Richard McCarron will host a public information session called “
Leading on LEAD
” focused on helping families protect children from lead exposure. The event is from 4 to 6 p.m. Wednesday at 6505 S. Salina St.
The event will offer practical tips on preventing lead poisoning from paint commonly found in homes
built before 1978
. County officials will also share details about free home lead inspections, repair resources, grant programs and training opportunities for people working on older houses.
The session will include information about New York’s new
Lead Rental Registry
law, which takes effect in November.
The law will require landlords and property owners in designated communities of concern — including Onondaga County — to address lead hazards identified through state testing. Under the new rules, rental properties with two or more units must be inspected for lead paint at least once every three years.
The event will also include games and a pumpkin painting activity.
Contractor Resource and Networking Fair
LeadSafeCNY Coalition’s
Contractor Training and Support Committee is leading a
resource and networking event
for people who work on older homes with lead paint — including local construction companies and independent contractors — on Thursday, Oct. 23.
The event’s purpose is to connect contractors with local and national organizations working to address the impacts of lead. It will also host tables for organizations looking to employ contractors.
The networking event will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the
CNY Philanthropy Center
’s Community Ballroom at 431 E. Fayette St. in Syracuse. Interested attendees can sign up for the event at the following link, but registration is not required.
Lead Poisoning Prevention Outreach
The county will participate in the annual Refugee Health Fair, hosted by
Catholic Charities of Onondaga County
. The fair
connects
refugees in the region — roughly 2,500 of whom live in Syracuse — with free health services such as vaccines, cancer screenings and blood glucose tests.
The health fair will run from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Friday at Catholic Charities’ office at 527 N. Salina St. in Syracuse.
Trunk or Treat
On Saturday, the program will be part of
BABY B.A.C.K. INC.
’s sixth annual “Trunk or Treat.” BABY B.A.C.K. is a Syracuse-based organization
focused
on reducing health disparities in our communities.
The Trunk or Treat will go from 1 to 4 p.m. Saturday at STEAM at Dr. King Elementary School at 416 E. Raynor St. in Syracuse.
Correction
: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that the abbreviation in BABY B.A.C.K. Inc.’s name stood for “Building A Community with Knowledge.” This abbreviation is actually a reference to the founder’s children’s names.
West Genesee’s $78 million plan to turn old golf course into bigger transportation center up for vote
Meet 5 new politicians who emerged in Central NY’s blue wave
Gregg Eriksen defeats incumbent Julie Abbott in Onondaga County Legislature race
Julia Boehning
Julia Boehning is a news intern for Syracuse.com and The Post Standard. Before joining the newsroom, she wrote for The Daily Orange and Global Philadelphia Association's Emerging International Journalism...
more
jmboehni@syr.edu