By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – The state’s top law enforcement agency has closed its review of a whistleblower’s complaint regarding a no-bid contract for Syracuse’s expensive and incomplete information technology project.
The Office of the New York State Attorney General is not releasing any specific findings, but issued a statement to syracuse.com that confirms it won’t pursue criminal or civil charges.
“After carefully reviewing the complaint, the Office of the Attorney General determined that no further action from our office is required, and we will not be pursuing this matter further,” the statement said.
A spokesperson said the office would not answer additional questions.
The AG’s office was looking into the matter since late December.
Mayor Ben Walsh’s administration first received the complaint in the fall from the owner of a local firm, Advanced IT. The owner said her firm was used as a pass-through to pay millions of dollars to a national consulting company, EY, formally known as Ernst & Young. Advanced IT received $90,000 but did not do any work for the city, the complaint said.
Most of the money went to EY, which despite billing for roughly $3 million, did not complete the project to modernize the city’s payroll and human resources systems by the end of last year as expected.
The Walsh administration fired EY in January and defended its use of Advance IT, saying the firm was hired to monitor EY’s pre-design work. EY was hired without competitive bidding, but it was an original bidder on a related previous project that went to another national firm in 2020.
Advanced IT’s complaint triggered
upheaval within the Walsh administration in late December through February.
Frank Caliva, the senior administration official in charge of the project,
resigned
. Former
budget director Tim Rudd resigned
and launched a
campaign for mayor
. Rudd was later fired before his resignation took effect after making remarks comparing Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens, another mayoral candidate, to a slave breaker for Walsh.
Owens brought the whistleblower complaint to the city’s corporation counsel office. It reviewed the allegations and determined procurement procedures were followed.
Rudd was not satisfied with that review and brought the whistleblower complaint to other people, including City Auditor Alexander Marion. The auditor turned the material over to the attorney general’s office.
Neither Marion nor the mayor’s office have received communication from the AG’s office about the closed status of the review, they both said.
The AG’s office was not the only outside entity to look into the IT project. The Syracuse Common Council
commissioned an IT audit
by a consulting division of The Bonadio Group shortly after Caliva resigned.
Although the audit team interviewed the whistleblower, its
final report
provided little analysis of the procurement complaint. It did, however, concur with the city’s corporation counsel that there was no evidence of fraud.
“The use of the (competitive bid) waiver process during the Payroll Modernization Project, though unusual, does not violate the City’s procurement procedures,” the report said.
City officials are continuing to assess EY’s performance under the contract to determine if the city should pursue compensation for services not delivered, said Greg Loh, chief policy officer. EY told the Bonadio auditors that they did fulfill the terms of the contract.
In the meantime, work on a new payroll and human resources IT system is progressing, Loh said. New timekeeping software is being rolled out, with employees at City Hall and One Park Place having just finished training. Testing has started for the parks department and the public works department will follow.
The city has selected a different platform for payroll and HR than the Oracle system EY was pursuing. Officials on a request for proposals committee, which include common councilors, are in the final stages of selecting a firm to guide the implementation of the new system.
Assessment of Syracuse Applications - DRAFT Report
by
Tim Knauss
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com