By
Mark Weiner | mweiner@syracuse.com
Washington – Senate Republicans who
passed the big bill Tuesday to enact President Donald Trump’s agenda
included a single sentence that strikes a blow to Syracuse’s plan to revitalize one of its poorest neighborhoods.
The bill takes back any unspent grant money from the Neighborhood Access and Equity Program, a $3.3 billion initiative to help rebuild disadvantaged communities torn apart by interstate highways.
Syracuse last year
won a $30 million competitive grant
from the program to help build a new neighborhood that would rise when
Interstate 81
is torn down and replaced by a street-level boulevard.
Syracuse officials said the federal money – coupled with a similar $150 million grant to New York state for the project – would help kick-start the biggest transformation of a neighborhood in the city’s history.
But the Trump administration didn’t like the Federal Highway Administration program established by Congress in 2022 and signed into law by former President Joe Biden.
The version of Trump’s “big, beautiful bill” passed by the Senate after Vice President J.D. Vance broke a 50-50 tie included language to cancel grants that had not been paid out from the program.
The language rescinding the grants was inserted in a single sentence on page 216 of the 887-page bill.
New York’s two U.S. senators, Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, had advocated for Syracuse’s grant but were unable to stop the program from being canceled in the Republican-controlled Senate.
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Oregon, tried to save the grants for cities like Syracuse by proposing an amendment to exempt grants that had already been awarded. But Republicans blocked the amendment from advancing to a vote on the Senate floor this week.
GOP leaders in Congress previously said they wanted to take back more than $2 billion worth of grants from the Neighborhood Access and Equity Program that had been awarded but not fully spent.
Syracuse received only $300,000 of its $30 million grant because the city was required by federal law to first complete environmental reviews, according to Greg Loh, the city’s chief policy officer.
The study, required by the National Environmental Policy Act, is expected to take up to two years to complete, Loh said.
Syracuse would use the grant to pay for new streets, parks, bike paths, lighting, sidewalks, trees and recreation areas in the neighborhood bordering what is now the elevated portion of Interstate 81.
The infrastructure would set the stage for a massive project to replace public housing with market-rate and affordable homes as part of a 10-year redevelopment plan.
Transportation for America, a nonprofit group that supported the Neighborhood Access and Equity Program, tried to convince Republican senators not to cancel funding for the program.
About $1 billion of funding is at risk of being lost in red or purple states, according to the group.
Corrigan Salerno, policy manager for Transportation for America, said the group will now shift its approach as the bill heads back to the House of Representatives for final passage.
“As advocates we’re trying to think of alternative ways to at least minimize the damage here,” Salerno told syracuse.com | The Post-Standard on Wednesday.
RECOMMENDED
This donut shop is finally toast: It’s nearly time to raze the Dunkin’ next to I-81 in Syracuse
Mar. 18, 2026, 6:40 p.m.
Oswego County plans to open 30,000 acres for development of housing, businesses near Micron
Mar. 19, 2026, 10:54 p.m.
He said the group could seek to have the Federal Highway Administration change the definition of “unobligated funds,” the term used in the bill to describe grant money that has not been spent by cities and states.
The GOP-controlled House of Representatives began considering the Senate version of the bill on Wednesday. House Speaker Mike Johnson has set a goal of passing the bill by July 4.
Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact Mark Weiner anytime by:
Email
|
Twitter
|
Facebook
| 571-970-3751
Mark Weiner
Mark Weiner is the Washington correspondent for Syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. He has four decades of experience reporting on issues important to Central New York. You can reach him at 571-970-3751.
mweiner@syracuse.com