Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

40°

Syracuse political infighting likely to continue as contentious city budget is finalized

by Conor Wight

Tue, May 27, 2025 at 6:37 PM
00:01
00:00
Common Council President Pro Tempore Pat Hogan leads a meeting where councilors overrode all of Mayor Walsh's budget vetoes (Photo by CNY Central)
8
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
BUDGET
COUNCILORS
MAYOR WALSH
PAT HOGAN
POLITICAL INFIGHTING
PROPERTY TAXES
TRANSPARENCY

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — On paper, the Syracuse City budget is now finalized. The tension, however, is likely to persist inside city hall after weeks of a public and at times personal battle between Mayor Ben Walsh's team and Common Council leadership over the numbers and the process.

On Tuesday, councilors voted unanimously 45 times to override all 45 of Walsh's attempts to veto certain amendments the council made to his proposed budget. With acting council president Pat Hogan appearing to lead the charge, councilors were critical of Walsh's third consecutive proposal to raise property taxes and reliance on about $27 million from the city's reserve fund. Walsh argues he tried to find compromise; he didn't issue vetoes for the more than 80 amendments councilors made, instead choosing to agree to eliminate the tax hike while preserving what he saw as critical public safety and quality of life services.

Councilor Hogan said he did not believe there was any room to compromise, leading a council moving in lockstep against the mayor.

"We can't keep spending money the way we are," Hogan said, "I think it shows the due diligence that council does, having 9 councilors agree on a city budget, that's something."

Others, including Mayor Walsh, have been critical of the way councilors have gone about this process. While Hogan argues that they've done everything out in the open - touting a months-long process of public meetings with department heads - open government advocates are concerned that the final decision to slash the budget proposal happened behind closed doors. On Tuesday, councilors entered executive session and did not openly discuss their override votes ahead of time. Councilors Hogan and Chol Majok were the only ones willing to speak to reporters.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Councilors also retained a third-party to identify places to save money in a report that the public did not get to read until the council's amendments were announced.

"You completely did not follow a process that included the voices of the people," Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens said.

Owens joins Walsh in acussing councilors of failing to be transparent with the public and the administration. Councilor Majok said that Walsh's fiery press conference the day the amendments were announced chilled the ability for councilors to find common ground with his team, arguing that the council followed the legal process.

"We saw that there was, a full blown war against councilors," Majok said, "we made a decision and were not reactive, we were doing our job."

Mayor Walsh responded directly to his comments in a press conference following Tuesday's Common Counil meeting.

"I question whether or not Councilor Majok even read what we presented him, because he was just wrong. So, don't lecture me on being an 'adult in the room,'" Walsh said.

Walsh maintains that the city would have enjoyed success under his initial budget proposal; Majok said that it set them on a path for the state to need to take over city operations down the line. But the argument over fiscal responsibility is ultimately overshadowed by the political barbs that will carry into election season; Majok, Hogan and Owens are all competing to succeed Walsh at the end of his term this year.

Hogan and Majok insist that their budget votes have nothing to do with their campaigns. Owens finds that hard to believe.

Walsh said its still too early to share what departments will end up cutting. Syracuse Fire Chief Michael Monds said that he's concerned about their ability to maintain critical equipment; Parks Commissioner Syeisha Byrd is worried about cutting staff.

READ THE COMMENTS (8)

The common council indicated that department heads will be able to come to them for financial requests, which Walsh said they may need to end up taking them up on, though it's unclear what that process will look like. This year's budget takes effect for the new fiscal year starting in July.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Drone drops knives, drugs and cell phone inside fence at Marcy Correctional Facility
Breathalyzer company under security breach; cars unable to move
Victim shot in parking lot outside of Destiny USA dies
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Contractor charged for not completing work he was paid to do
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.