By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — An effort to establish an advisory committee to look over the law that governs Syracuse’s police watchdog board is being delayed.
Syracuse Common Councilor Chol Majok on Monday withdrew his proposal to establish the Citizen Review Board Legislative Update Committee. Majok, who chairs the council’s Public Safety Committee and is a candidate for mayor this year, introduced the measure a month ago shortly after all 11 CRB seats were filled by council or mayoral appointments.
But since introducing the item, Majok has encountered questions from other common councilors about whether the timing was right for a legislative advisory committee. He also heard the same from the former CRB chair, who wrote councilors a letter saying the board should drive a legislative review because it’s supposed to operate independently of city government.
That former chair, Bryn Lovejoy-Grinnell, resigned nine days after sending the letter. Another recently appointed CRB member also stepped down around the same time.
The resignation and the council questions convinced Majok to withdraw his proposal.
“We want to stick to that strategy of making sure that we first fill the board,” Majok said after Monday’s council meeting.
Majok said the existing board is also close to hiring a full-time administrator, which is the position that runs the CRB’s day-to-day operation and oversees the investigations of police misconduct complaints. That position has been vacant since September.
The Citizen Review Board investigates police misconduct complaints and offers recommendations to the chief on whether policy violations occurred and if discipline should be administered. It has faced a deluge of problems over the past couple of years. Those include
internal struggles
,
personnel issues
and challenges maintaining
legitimacy
and
power
.
Majok said he’d now like to get the vacant CRB seats filled and see the board hire its administrator before he’ll revive the legislative advisory panel proposal. He’s hoping that could happen this summer.
Majok’s most recent CRB-related proposal would have established a nine-person committee that included the chief of police, a city lawyer and seven civilians who would review the city law that governs the board’s operation. It has not been updated since 2011. That committee would recommend changes to the law, which must be approved by the common council to go into effect.
A year ago, the councilors narrowly approved a measure to have more say in the hiring, firing and management of the CRB’s administrator. Mayor Ben Walsh ultimately vetoed the measure, the council did not attempt to override his move. CRB advocates said the proposal would have undermined CRB independence.
Another proposal from Majok brought forward last fall would have empowered council to deal with an administrator who was found to violate workplace policies if the CRB failed to act. Majok withdrew that proposal, as well, when several new board members were appointed at the start of this year.
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
New venue will let you play 18 holes of golf in downtown Syracuse later this year
See Syracuse’s 25 most dangerous intersections (and how the city plans to make them safer)
Syracuse’s mayoral primary was a landslide. Is it a wakeup call for old guard Democrats?
Crews will start removing dozens of trees this month at historic Syracuse park
Syracuse police chief hopes union leader ‘cools off’ after ‘dangerous’ online comments
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.