By
B. Duncan | bduncan@syracuse.com
The
South Side Community Growth Foundation
announced
Deka Eysaman
will serve as its inaugural executive director.
Eysaman has a proven track record of driving impactful programs and initiatives that spark innovation within public private partnerships and advance equity for marginalized populations. She most recently served as assistant director of field organizing at the
New York Civil Liberties Union
where she supervised a team of more than two dozen people across the state, directly overseeing the operations of four regional offices. Under her leadership, NYCLU grew its volunteer network by 30% and partnered with statewide organizations to lead a successful campaign to pass an equal rights amendment to the state’s constitution.
>> Send us your company’s news about People in Motion
While the NYCLU introduced Eysaman to hundreds of New York organizations across the state
,
the Syracuse community knows Eysaman best from her time serving as former board president of the
Urban Jobs Task Force
of Syracuse. Eysaman directed the organization’s “I-81 Local Hire” public advocacy campaign which ensured 15% of employees working on the I-81 viaduct project would be hired from the local community. In this role, Eysaman raised more than $600,000 in funding from government and foundation sources, helped shape local policies, and supported the creation of the nationally acclaimed
Syracuse Build initiative
. She also oversaw the Task Force’s process to hire its first executive director.
Eysaman also has experience in programming and youth development, previously serving as teen program director for the
Boys & Girls Clubs of Syracuse
and program associate for the
Syracuse University
Science and Technology Entry Program. She is also a 40 Under 40 recipient, being recognized by
BizEventz
and the
Central New York Business Journal
in 2020.
The
South Side Community Growth Foundation
is a nonprofit organization dedicated to supporting South Side neighbors by partnering with neighbors, businesses, and government to invest in transformative community initiatives. Established by local philanthropist Chedy Hampson, the Foundation’s focus areas include affordable housing and activities that support economic mobility of South Side residents, all of which will be informed by robust community engagement efforts.
Since its founding last year, the foundation’s team has begun cultivating relationships with their
McKinley Park
neighbors over face-to-face conversations, kitchen table talks and hosting a private barbeque for the community. Eysaman is charged with building upon this momentum in order to refine and enhance the organization’s vision.
If you’d like to submit an item about People in Motion at your organization, send a press release including photo, to
business@syracuse.com
with Company News in the subject field. We publish news about people with ties to Onondaga, Cayuga, Madison and Oswego counties. See
all recent Company News items.
Company news: Solvay Bank promotes Mirabella Acchione, Taquon Mitchell
Company news: James J. O’Shea joins International Association of Defense Counsel
Company news: Tanya Jenkins joins ACR Health board of directors in Syracuse
Company news: Julie A. Angiulo joins Nephrology Associates of Syracuse
Company news: Travis M. Newton becomes Le Moyne’s arts and sciences dean
B. Duncan
Content Assistant
bduncan@syracuse.com