By
Ben Walsh, Sharon Owens & Joe Cecile
|
City of Syracuse
Ben Walsh is mayor of Syracuse. Sharon Owens is deputy mayor. Joe Cecile is chief of police.
The Syracuse community is locking arms to build a safer city, and the latest crime data shows we’re making progress. All major categories of crime — violent, property and overall — are down significantly in 2025. Shootings are down more than 50% compared to the five-year average. It’s not one deterrence strategy or law enforcement agency alone that’s making a difference. It’s many actions and multiple partners coming together to reduce crime.
Overall crime is down by 27.3% through the first seven months of the year, according
COMPSTAT
, the comparative statistics report used by Syracuse Police to monitor crime trends and plan strategies. Violent offenses are down 18%, and property crime is 29.2% lower.
Crime is also down significantly when compared to the five-year average, which is considered an even more reliable indicator of public safety trends. Against that measure, overall crime is down 11.3%; violent offenses are down 25.7%; and property crime is down 7.1%. The data in Syracuse is consistent with and in some categories lower than trends being reported in other cities in the U.S.
Drawing attention to this improved data in no way means we are declaring victory. We understand it’s no solace for anyone who has directly experienced crime. Our community has also endured heart-wrenching crimes that have shaken our city.
In those hard moments, community leaders, including us, will say the police alone cannot make a city safer. We implore the community for help. Syracuse has listened, so it is important to acknowledge the efforts by law enforcement and the community.
We are grateful for all the hard work of the Syracuse Police Department. SPD’s patrol officers and their commanders are motivated, engaged, proactive, and always on the lookout for strategies that prevent crimes. SPD detectives continue to outperform many state and national averages in investigations and arrests. They are supported every day by dedicated civilian staffers who perform critically important work for public safety.
SPD leadership has also effectively implemented smart changes that are improving policing. In the fall of 2023, the department introduced an improved schedule for patrol officers. Using 10-hour days, it puts more officers on duty during peak call-load times. That means cops now get to calls faster and waiting times have been reduced. With the new schedule and additional time available for officers, SPD has been able to institute the
KOPER Curve
strategy, a proven system that has officers
stepping out of their patrol cars
at least three times per shift and walk beats in areas selected based on crime trends.
A multi-year increased investment in CPTED — Crime Prevention Through Environment Design — is also making an impact. In CPTED actions, SPD works with Public Works, Code Enforcement and other city departments to target and clean up environmental factors that might lead to crime, like overgrowth, unsecured vacant properties and insufficient lighting. We’ve also invested in diversionary response for those who experience mental health and substance abuse issues. We hope to expand this program.
There’s been outstanding cooperation with our county, state and federal partners in law enforcement. Onondaga County has provided critical support through the District Attorney’s Office and added patrols through Probation and the Sheriff’s Office. Gov. Kathy Hochul and the New York state Division of Criminal Justice Services, along with the New York state Attorney General’s Office and State Police, have consistently responded to our needs and increased gun violence and crime-fighting resources for Syracuse and Onondaga County.
Nonetheless, law enforcement can’t be everywhere. So, it takes a community.
The Mayor’s Office to Reduce Gun Violence is improving the coordination between the nearly 10 community partners who work to reduce gun violence. That’s helped violence interrupters who used to operate independently cooperate more effectively and head off more acts of violence. The Mayor’s Office to Reduce Gun Violence’s Safer Streets program is using credible messengers — people who used to be involved in crime — to act as mentors and show young people other paths are available. The work being done behind the scenes to get young people to put down their guns and choose nonviolent pathways is succeeding.
Many other community partners have joined this effort. The Syracuse Parks Department conducts an aggressive year-round schedule of after school and summer recreation programs and opens its centers to children at a wide range of hours and on weekends. The Syracuse Police Athletics and Activities League is building stronger police-community relationships and involving hundreds of community volunteers from in and out of law enforcement in educational and fun activities for our youth.
The Syracuse-Onondaga County Summer Youth Employment program, in partnership with CNY Works, On Point for College, the Allyn Foundation and community businesses, has created thousands of good-paying summer jobs. The program gives young people valuable job experience, a paycheck and productive things to do. The Syracuse City School District provides in-school programming, after school activities and access to school buildings to give young people safe alternatives to spend their time.
All of these law enforcement and community efforts are “circular” in their impact. Community engagement and proactive police work lead to reductions in crime, which creates more time for officers to be proactive and engage with the people they serve. And crime can go down even more. With continued police-community cooperation, we can keep the cycle going and make Syracuse a safer place for all.
Syracuse missed opportunities to intervene at Nob Hill apartments (Editorial Board Opinion)
Florida offers test case for NY: Curbing lawsuits lowers insurance rates (Guest Opinion by Lauren Zelt)
CBA leader: Athletics should teach kids to face difficulty, not avoid it (Guest Opinion by Matthew Keough)