Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

36°

Syracuse Mayor Walsh's proposed budget raises taxes and water rates by 2%

by Gary Robinson Jr.

Wed, April 9, 2025 at 11:46 PM
Updated Thu, April 10, 2025 at 10:27 AM
00:01
00:00

Syracuse taxpayers could see their property tax bill and water bill go up again. The city proposed a 348.4-million-dollar budget and to pay for it— they are asking for a 2 percent tax rate increase in water rates.

17
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
BUDGET
TAXES
WATER RATES
SYRACUSE
PROPERTY TAX
MAYOR WALSH
REVENUE
INFLATION

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse taxpayers could see their property tax bill and water bill go up again.

The city proposed a $348.4 million budget and to pay for it, they are asking for a 2% tax rate increase in water rates.

The city said for a home assessed at $100,000, this would increase the annual cost by about $60.

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh said he’s banking on nearly $4 million in new revenue from automated ticketing for speeding in school zones and a little more than a million dollars in building permits from increased construction.

The budget takes nearly $30 million from the city's fund balance, the “rainy day fund,” which has more than $100 million.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

This comes at a tumultuous time where everyone is suffering from inflation, an unstable stock market and the looming impact from tariffs.

Mayor Walsh believes this is the best decision for the city, saying that costs are going up significantly across the board and the city’s two biggest revenues, which are sales tax and state aid, haven’t been able to keep pace.

Walsh said he understands this would put financial pressure on neighbors.

“We understand that people are living paycheck to paycheck, so any amount more than that can be challenging, but I think if you put it in the broader context of what that allows us to do in terms of delivering services to those same individuals, it’s necessary to do it," said Walsh.

Northside City Counselor Marty Nave is against the increase. He said he can already hear what neighbors on the northside will tell him about the increase.

“I can hear right now, 'Marty, look at my tax bill. Marty, look how much I paid for gas. Marty, look at my food bill. Marty, look at my doctors' bills... You might say $10 is nothing. If you're retired, it means a lot. If you’re working with two jobs and you have children, that’s a lot to ask," said Nave.

One neighbor who commutes to Syracuse for work from Canastota and is looking to buy a home in the city said he was having second thoughts about the move after hearing about the 2% tax increase.

“We’re looking to rent too, so either one, but with the taxes, it’s hard to make a living now," he said. "I mean, everything is so expensive. It’s ridiculous that they keep raising taxes. There’s no need for it, but I mean they are already way too high as it is,” said the neighbor.

Walsh said the increase will also help to make up lost revenue by not tapping into the city’s reserves.

The proposed budget will draw only a portion of money from the city fund balance, with the city’s reserve currently projected to be at $120 million at the end of the fiscal year.

READ THE COMMENTS (17)

The city said it expects $6.6 million of revenue in property taxes after the 2% increase.




  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
The Fed didn’t cut intere st rates. Here are 5 thing s to watch next.
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.