By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — The owner of an office building next to a proposed
10-story downtown Syracuse hotel
wants a judge to throw out key city board approvals of the $87 million project and require a more detailed environmental review.
Putnam Properties LLC and its owner, attorney Fred Davies, filed a lawsuit Friday claiming the Onondaga Hotel would negatively affect the environment for neighboring properties if not altered.
0:03
/
0:15
Keep Watching
Putnam Properties owns the seven-story Lafayette Building, which is bordered on two sides by M. Lemp Park, where an Indianapolis-based developer plans to build a 248-room hotel with two restaurants and conference space. The project site also includes a condemned parking garage on South Warren Street that would be demolished.
If successful, the lawsuit could significantly delay a project that would bring new hotel rooms to Syracuse after
hundreds were lost
in recent years due to residential conversions.
The lawsuit is asking the court to nullify a decision by the Syracuse Industrial Development Agency in July that determined the project would not have a significant environmental impact and a decision by the City Planning Commission in November
authorizing
the project site plan.
Davies has said he is not opposed to the hotel project outright, and he supports allowing the parking garage demolition to proceed. But he wants the city to require the developer,
Sun Development
, to conduct a more rigorous environmental impact study under state law that considers alternative designs.
Sun Development officials did not respond to a request for comment Monday. Syracuse mayor’s office spokesperson Sol Munoz said the city will provide its response in court once it has formally been served with the lawsuit.
The legal petition was filed in state Supreme Court in Onondaga County. Judge Joseph E. Lamendola has set a hearing on the matter for Feb. 11.
Among the concerns outlined in the lawsuit:
The 10-story hotel would create a “complete obstruction” for people looking out the west windows of the Lafayette Building, which currently overlook the park and provide views of the South Warren streetscape.
Four stories of parking garage space on the bottom floors of the hotel would add “noise, light, odors and emissions” to the downtown area.
Drainage from the Lafayette Building, which currently carries rainwater into the park, would be hindered by the hotel’s presence.
Davies expressed his concerns at an Oct. 20 City Planning Commission meeting. The board decided to delay its site plan decision to allow the developer and Davies time to discuss his concerns.
The developer rejected a set of alternative plans Davies drew up. At the meeting, the project’s representative contended that the hotel proposal complied with the city’s zoning laws and therefore required site plan approval.
An architectural rendering of the planned Onondaga Hotel on South Warren St. in downtown Syracuse was included on the Syracuse Landmark Preservation Board's Oct. 9, 2025, meeting agenda. (Ratio Architects)
Ratio Architects
The construction timeline for the Onondaga Hotel, which would be the largest new hotel project downtown since 2013, sets garage demolition work to begin in early 2026, hotel construction to be underway by the spring and completion by the end of 2027.
If a court decides that a full environmental impact study under the State Environmental Quality Review Act is required, that could push the project back by at least several months. In addition to the extensive analysis such a study would require, there is a mandatory 30-day public comment period and potentially a public hearing requirement for a draft environmental impact statement.
The Syracuse Industrial Development Agency board picked Sun after issuing a request for proposals in 2024 for redeveloping
M. Lemp Park
. The space is zoned for commercial use but has become an unofficial city pocket park after the IDA acquired the site and demolished blighted buildings there more than 16 years ago. The city plans to develop alternative green space in the downtown area with funds it expects to receive as part of the developer’s purchase of the park parcels.
The hotel will be part of the Hilton chain as one of its
Curio Collection
properties, which are custom-built for the cities where they are located.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com