By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – The developer of a major apartment project that would overlook a newly created boulevard once the elevated portion of
Interstate 81 comes down
is shrinking the size of the building for the second time.
Christopher Geiger has submitted new plans to the city of Syracuse that cut the footprint of the Gateway Apartments project at the corner of East Fayette and Almond streets. His latest proposal would reduce the number of apartments from 291 to 259, an 11% cut.
Thirty-two of the units will be designated as affordable for people at 80% or less of the area’s median income level, according to the plans. That’s down from 35 previously but still meets the city’s requirements for new multifamily residential developments.
Under the new plans, Gateway Apartments would remain seven stories tall, but the building would not wrap around the former AME Zion Church and the building next to it that is occupied by XO Taco.
Brian Bouchard, a project engineer with CHA, told the Syracuse Landmark Preservation Board at a recent meeting the change was made to reduce costs and make the project “more palatable” to investors.
“What we have done is tried to reduce the overall cost of the building,” he said.
Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard has reached out to the developer for comment.
Eric
Ennis, deputy commissioner of Neighborhood & Business Development for the city, said the change was needed after the developer learned the project would not be eligible for as much state brownfield cleanup tax credits as he expected.
The westerly portion of the site was formerly occupied by a gas station, which resulted in ground pollution. That portion of the site will be eligible for tax credits under New York’s Brownfield Cleanup Program.
However, the state determined that the contamination on the easterly portion of the project site did not warrant tax credits for its cleanup, Ennis said. As a result, the developer has decided not to build on that portion of the site, which will reduce his land purchase and construction costs, he said.
It’s the second time the developer has reduced the size of the building.
When Mayor Ben Walsh
announced Geiger’s plans
early last year, the building was to be 14 stories tall and have 300 apartments. That would have made it the city’s first high-rise apartment project in decades.
But a few months later, Geiger changed his plans, reducing the building to seven stories and 291 apartments, though it would have occupied a bigger footprint by wrapping around the two buildings next to it.
Rendering shows earlier plans for developer Christopher Geiger's Gateway Apartments at East Fayette and Almond streets in Syracuse. He has since reduced the size of the project from 291 apartments to 259 units.
Passero Engineering Architecture
But under the latest plans, the portion of the building that would have wrapped around the easterly side of the two buildings next to it has been eliminated.
Geiger estimated the cost of the project at $129.8 million when he applied to the Syracuse Industrial Development Agency in October for
$24 million in tax breaks
stretching over 15 years. He put his application on hold before the agency voted on it, saying he needed more time to work on financing and other issues.
Ennis said the developer has not shared new cost estimates with the city. However, he said he expects Geiger to revise his application with the city development agency and disclose the new cost numbers at that time.
No date for the start of construction has been set. Ennis said he does not expect a groundbreaking this year because Geiger must first line up investors and financing for his revised plans.
He said he still expects the project to be the first to be built along the Almond Street corridor once the I-81 viaduct is demolished.
The state Department of Transportation plans to take down the aging elevated portion of the highway where it cuts through downtown Syracuse and replace it will a ground-level boulevard. That’s expected to open up opportunities for residential and commercial development along Almond Street.
Lawsuit: Company behind Taste of Syracuse, Nationals used events as collateral for $1M loan then defaulted
Skaneateles Lake estate hits the market for jaw-dropping $21 million (photos)
3 Syracuse hotels became student apartments. In a first, one landlord is going the other direction
If you’re flying out of Syracuse airport, here’s what just changed with parking and pickups
Dozens of $175K modular homes might soon be on the market in Syracuse. Here’s how to buy one
Rick Moriarty covers business news and consumer issues. Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact him anytime:
Email
|
X
|
Facebook
| 315-470-3148
Rick Moriarty
I report on business news and consumer issues for The Post-Standard and syracuse.com. I can be reached at (315) 470-3148.
rmoriarty@syracuse.com