Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

36°

Decisions on Syracuse budget cuts happened behind closed doors

by Gary Robinson Jr.

Fri, May 9, 2025 at 11:30 PM

Friday, we know more about the outside analysis the Syracuse common council leaned on to make millions in budget cuts.

That slashing at city hall Thursday brought anger from the mayor and touched off the tensest political period in Syracuse in years.

7
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
BUDGET CUTS
COMMON COUNCIL
BONADIO GROUP
FISCAL DISCIPLINE
CLOSED DOORS
POLITICAL MEETINGS
OPEN GOVERNMENT

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Friday, we know more about the outside analysis the Syracuse common council leaned on to make millions in budget cuts.

That slashing at City Hall Thursday brought anger from the mayor and touched off the tensest political period in Syracuse in years.

The Bonadio Group is the same firm the Walsh administration uses for its annual audit of city finances.

Its analysis of this year's budget finds by utilizing 'proven strategies' from other cities Syracuse can reduce costs by 26 million dollars.

The analysis says the recommended changes would also start laying a foundation for long-term fiscal discipline.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

The council did not go as far as the recommendation by cutting 16 million.

The Syracuse common council spent weeks questioning city department heads about the budget in open meetings. But it appears when the time came to decide on cuts, it happened behind closed doors.

This week the council filed 80 amendments to the mayor's budget and from the mayor to the police and fire chiefs - there is a lot of anger about it.

CNY Central learned about the meeting before the meeting all of city hall is talking about.

Friday May 2nd, members of the common council had the review of the budget they spent several thousands on from the Bonadio Group

“Councilors met together with the Bonadio Group, and they gave us analysis of the budget, that it was bloated. We were all there,” said common councilor Marty Nave.

The meeting, unlike other budget hearings, was not public.

But that’s not illegal. The council could consider it a caucus meeting which is a tool of political parties used often at every level of government.

“Well caucus is something that’s allowed. You talk about political things at a caucus... I mean if you’re trying to say we had an illegal meeting we did not have an illegal meeting,” said common councilor Pat Hogan.

The administration of mayor Ben Walsh is raising concerns about how the common council operated when it came to the budget cuts.

“It's interesting to hear that the entire council had a meeting to discuss city business and it wasn't advertised publicly, the administration certainly wasn't invited to the meeting either,” said Chief Administrative Officer at City of Syracuse Corey Driscoll Dunham.

Those who advocate for open government practices say a political body that operates in public is always more welcome than one that does not.

“Being an elected official is not just about casting the vote, people should know what your thoughts and concerns are. And when a budget is changed without discussion or any debate that is a disservice to the public,” said President of the New York Coalition for Open Government Paul Wolf.

READ THE COMMENTS (7)

Wolf also says there is a time and a place for a caucus meeting, and this was neither and that if in this meeting the budget was discussed that is improper and a disservice to taxpayers.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.