By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh said a goal for the final budget of his administration was to avoid a property tax rate increase. Then financial reality set in.
Walsh will propose a 2% increase in property tax rates for the city’s 2025-26 budget. He said higher costs for expenses like retirement payments and health insurance combined with a slowdown in key revenue sources like sales tax and investment income forced his hand.
It marks the
third straight year
Walsh has proposed a property tax rate increase. If approved by the Common Council, it would be the fourth overall in eight years under Walsh.
The tax increase would translate into a $57 annual tax increase for a home assessed at $100,000. Walsh said the extra money is needed to avoid dipping too far into the city’s $120 million savings fund. The next budget would grab $27.2 million from that fund, which is built from years when actual revenues outpaced expenses.
“I came into this hoping not to propose a property tax rate increase,“ Walsh told syracuse.com Monday. ”Ultimately, I think it’s the responsible thing to do because it’s one of the few revenue lines we actually have some control over.”
The mayor is also calling for a 2% water rate increase, which equates to about $5 more per year for a typical residential customer. The sewer rate would not change.
Walsh presents his $348.4 million budget proposal to the common council Wednesday afternoon. Lawmakers will hold a series of hearings, going through each department’s allocations and revenue projections, the rest of this month. Based on
past years
, they will likely make some changes.
The council must approve a final budget by May 8.
The tax rate increase will generate about $2.5 million in added revenue for the city, while growth in the city’s overall taxable assessed value will produce an additional $4.1 million.
But other costs that can’t be directly controlled are going up at a higher rate, Walsh said. Three big increases are $3.5 million
more for police and fire retirement contributions, $2.8 million for medical insurance and $1.5 million for anticipated additional labor costs for union contracts due to expire at the end of the calendar year.
At the same time, the city’s largest revenue source has flat-lined. The city is going to fall below the $123.7 million in anticipated sales tax revenue budgeted for the current year. The next budget proposal calls for a $700,000 dip from that level.
Sales tax makes up about one-third of the city’s revenue. The anticipated decline doesn’t account for potential impacts from a looming international trade war, a potential recession and declining tourism from Canada. Gov. Kathy Hochul has said sales tax has plummeted in recent weeks statewide.
Lower interest rates on savings are also eating away at investment income the city generates from its fund balance, with the next budget projecting a $1.5 million decrease. In addition, the city can no longer use any federal funds from the Joe Biden-era American Rescue Plan Act. The current budget is using up the last $11 million from that allocation.
Walsh said he believes the city is prepared to handle all of the headwinds. He emphasized that his budget projections have always been conservative, and as a result, there have been budget surpluses in four of the last seven
years. The fund balance during his two terms has more than doubled from $52 million to the projected $120 million for this year.
“It is a testament to our fiscal stewardship, but also, we did it for budgets like this one,” he said.
The budget does add some new positions, but Walsh said they are mainly tied to work that either produces revenue or generates cost efficiencies. Those include three positions that process payments for traffic fines and penalties, which are expected to go up by $3.7 million due to the rollout of automated school zone enforcement.
Walsh also wants to bring on two additional code enforcement inspectors.
“We are being more aggressive than ever in holding bad property owners accountable, and that requires a lot of work,” he said.
The mayor continues to budget for full staffing in the police department, even though the struggle to recruit new officers has meant about 30 of the 423 positions have been vacant. The police budget would grow by 4% to $65.8 million, by far the largest for any single city department. That’s due largely to contractual pay increases and retirement contributions. The next largest allocation is $50 million for the fire department.
Walsh lamented that the tight finances are eating into how much the budget includes for housing initiatives. While this year’s plan provided $2.5 million for the city’s housing strategy implementation, the next year adds just $1 million.
“Those are difficult decisions, but ones we felt were necessary” he said. “I remember the feeling in my first year in office looking at a $50 million fund balance and doing the math and not being sure if I was going to be able to get through my administration fiscally solvent. I don’t want my successor to have that feeling.”
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
New venue will let you play 18 holes of golf in downtown Syracuse later this year
See Syracuse’s 25 most dangerous intersections (and how the city plans to make them safer)
Syracuse’s mayoral primary was a landslide. Is it a wakeup call for old guard Democrats?
Crews will start removing dozens of trees this month at historic Syracuse park
Syracuse police chief hopes union leader ‘cools off’ after ‘dangerous’ online comments
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.