Common Council leaders raised concerns Wednesday over Mayor Ben Walsh’s proposed budget, which includes a looming $27 million deficit on top of a proposed tax hike.

Council finance chair Corey Williams, who has sparred with Walsh over spending in the past, said he was “disappointed” in the deficit after Walsh presented the budget to the council yesterday afternoon. Walsh is asking for a 2% tax rate increase, which, coupled with rising property values, would generate $7 million in new money for city hall.

Williams said that $7 million should be considered part of the deficit. He said he sees the true deficit as $34 million, accounting for those tax increases.

A subscription is required to read this story.
Subscribe now to continue.

Williams has been a vocal critic of deficit spending. In a letter to the editor to syracuse.com in January, he claimed the city is spending at an “unsustainable rate” and called on the administration to balance the budget without adding fees and taxes to residents.

“I think about the long-term viability of our city, and the numbers appear to be getting bigger and bigger each year,” Williams said after Wednesday’s meeting. “There’s going to come a point where we can’t continue to draw from our fund balance at the rate we’re going.”

In his presentation Wednesday, however, Walsh pointed to the growth of the city’s fund balance under his administration. Even if the city uses the proposed $27 million from that rainy day fund, the balance will still be $35 million higher than the best-practice recommendation, according to a city press release.

The balance at the end of the current fiscal year is estimated to be $120 million. That balance was around $40 million when Walsh took office.

Mayor Ben Walsh presents his proposed budget to the Common Council on Wednesday, April 9, 2025.Claire Harrison

The mayor laid out how the potential tax hikes would affect homeowners. For houses assessed at $100,000, the tax increase would raise annual property bills by about $57. That number reaches $85 and $113 for homes assessed at $150,000 and $200,000, respectively.

Councilor Pat Hogan, who is running to be the next mayor, said the council needs to determine how departments are performing and what is needed in terms of staff before even considering tax hikes. With the anxiety Syracuse residents are feeling about tumult in Washington and the economy, Hogan said the council needs to be cognizant.

“People are worried, and it’s not a time to reevaluate, to raise taxes,” Hogan said.

Hogan said the council will go through the budget item by item in the coming month to determine how much needs to be drawn from the fund balance. He said spending $27 million from the city’s reserve fund worries him tremendously and should be used as a “fallback.”

Looking at how the city can minimize the deficit, Hogan, who chairs the council’s economic development, downtown and metropolitan planning committee, said he doesn’t know if a proposed $1 million allocation to the Syracuse Housing Strategies Corporation is necessary.

“I’m a big proponent of housing, but we’re talking about giving $1 million to housing,” he said. “We’ve got $7.5 million right now in the housing trust fund, and nothing’s happening with it.”

Councilors will meet with city department leaders to go over the proposed allocations and projections, which will likely result in changes to the budget. Last year’s budget included 30 amendments from councilors when it passed.

The council will also hear from the public at a public hearing on April 29.

The final budget is due May 8.