By
Katrina Tulloch | ktulloch@syracuse.com
The inaugural
Syracuse Prize
will award $10,000 to a resident of the city who has made a significant contribution to the cultural enrichment and vibrancy of the city of Syracuse.
Eligible individuals could be artists, educators, volunteers or advocates. Prize funds can be used to support the winner’s community work, living expenses, health and well-being, and personal and/or professional growth.
The application deadline is Sunday, Jan. 25, 2026 at 11:59 p.m. Finalists will be announced on Friday, March 6, 2026. Apply online at
cnyarts.org/grants/syracuse-prize
.
Applicants must describe their impact on Syracuse. A strong answer should:
Identify the communities you serve and engage.
Outline how Syracuse has benefited from your community efforts and the specific needs that you are addressing.
Offer evidence of the kind of impact you have had – that could be the number of people impacted, the length of time this service has been performed, and/or strong examples of the depth of the impact.
Applicants must also address how they would plan to use the prize money.
One winner and four finalists will be named in this inaugural cycle. The winner will receive the full prize amount and a special acknowledgement of their achievement.
The five finalists will receive complimentary tickets for themselves and their guests to a spring 2026 award ceremony honoring their achievements.
RECOMMENDED
Made in NY 2026: Auburn art exhibit features animal welfare themes at Schweinfurth Art Center
Mar. 18, 2026, 3:42 p.m.
Syracuse official says Clinton Square ‘will not be in use in 2027.’ Where will festivals go?
Mar. 23, 2026, 6:33 p.m.
The nominees could impact the city via any number of cultural contributions made in the last five years, including:
a creative work that has contributed to the present and future vibrancy of Syracuse
volunteering as a docent at an arts, culture, history or heritage museum
providing arts and culture learning within an after-school program
refurbishing and donating musical instruments to public school music departments
offering cultural access to in-need communities (e.g., a senior facility)
This prize is made possible through a private, donor-advised fund managed by Central New York Community Foundation. The award process and associated ceremony are administered and produced by CNY Arts.
Katrina Tulloch
Katrina Tulloch has been a journalist for 12 years covering a wide range of topics, including business, entertainment, housing, art, music, politics, courts, health and crime. 
Katrina earned her first New...
more
ktulloch@Syracuse.com