By
Kevin Tampone | ktampone@syracuse.com
President Donald Trump’s border czar is promising an influx of Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in sanctuary cities across the U.S.
“I’m going to work very hard … to keep President Trump’s promise and his commitment several weeks ago that sanctuary cities are now our priority,“ Tom Homan, Trump’s border czar, said, during a news conference,
according to The Guardian
. ”We’re going to flood the zone.
“If we can’t arrest that bad guy in the safety and security of the county jail, we’ll arrest him in the community. And when we arrest him in the community, if he’s with others that are in the country illegally, they are coming too.”
Homan also said every sanctuary city is unsafe and called them “sanctuaries for criminals.” He said Trump won’t tolerate the situation.
The end result, Homan said, according to The Guardian, will be exactly what sanctuary cities don’t want: More agents in their communities.
There’s no precise legal definition of what constitutes a sanctuary city. It often refers to a jurisdiction that limits cooperation with federal immigration authorities somehow.
Some local leaders in areas across the nation have declared their municipalities sanctuaries in recent years.
That includes former Syracuse Mayor Stephanie Miner. She declared Syracuse a sanctuary city in 2017.
Her successor, Mayor Ben Walsh, hasn’t made any changes to the city’s policies when it comes to immigration enforcement. City police don’t arrest people based on immigration status and they never have.
But Walsh has also downplayed the use of the term “sanctuary city” and instead referred to Syracuse as a welcoming place.
“Syracuse has been and always will be a welcoming city and proud refugee and immigrant resettlement community,” he said in a January statement. “The Syracuse Police Department does not enforce federal immigration law, but we do support federal efforts to remove violent criminals from our streets.”
Also in January,
Onondaga County Sheriff Toby Shelley said
his office would not comply with ICE requests to detain undocumented immigrants. He said the policy had been in effect since he became sheriff in 2023, and complies with the Fourth Amendment’s protection against unreasonable search and seizure.
Syracuse
was included on a Trump administration list of “sanctuary jurisdictions”
released in May.
The administration said the jurisdictions on the list were “deliberately obstructing the enforcement of federal immigration laws and endangering American citizens.”
Trump’s DOJ sues Harvard University over antisemitism on campus
Supreme Court justice calls personal attacks on judges ‘dangerous’; says ‘it’s got to stop’
Oil prices are spiking: The Trump administration is ‘scrambling’ to respond
Democrats storm out of Epstein files briefing, want Bondi to answer questions under oath
Trump fumes over allies’ response to Iran: ‘Never heard him so angry’
Kevin Tampone
Kevin's current focus is data journalism for Syracuse.com on topics including real estate, crime, the economy, education and more. He analyzes trends and produces stories, charts and tables using publicly...
more
ktampone@syracuse.com