By
N. Scott Trimble | strimble@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — It’s been over five years since the Bravest and the Finest threw down on the basketball court in Syracuse.
A battle that has gone on so long, no one seems to really be able to pinpoint when it started. Regardless of how long the rivalry pitted them against each other, this year, the Syracuse Fire Department Bravest triumphed over the Syracuse Police Finest 92-88.
The Syracuse Police and Fire departments squared off Friday night at Corcoran High School. It marked the return of the charity event that raises money for the United Way of Central New York. Over 250 people attended, from frolicking kids zipping around the bleachers wearing plastic pink or black firefighting hats to Mayor Ben Walsh presenting the winner’s trophy, and Syracuse Football coach Fran Brown cheering both teams on enthusiastically.
COVID put a halt to the decades-long rivalry in 2020, the first year anyone can remember it being cancelled. However, no one from Syracuse can recall when it started.
“Well, I remember it my first year at Syracuse in 2000, myself,” said Syracuse Fire Chief Michael Monds. “But I was told it had been going on a long time before that.”
Monds also said that he’s pretty sure the Bravest fire department also won every one of those games, too.
RECOMMENDED
Axe: Bryan Hodgson being out on the Syracuse basketball job brings up a few questions
Mar. 18, 2026, 6:39 p.m.
Syracuse basketball finalizing deal to hire Gerry McNamara as next head coach
Mar. 22, 2026, 7:53 p.m.
“He must have blinked then,” said Police Chief Joe Cecile. “I know I’ve seen a few [Finest] wins over the years.”
The Finest seemed poised to make it a rout this year with a 25-point lead in the first half and no indication it would stop. But after the second half started, the Bravest pulled together, their shots more consistent, the crosscourt passes bolder, and the final moments saw the score 76-76 when the firefighters finally caught up. The game became a free-throw contest toward the end, with the Bravest outperforming the Finest down to the buzzer.
Ray Manassa, chief marketing officer of the United Way of Central New York, said over $2,500 was raised for the United Way.
Norman Trimble
Video Journalist
strimble@syracuse.com