Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

37°

Trans sports ban blocked

Senators debate amendments to the SAVE America Act.

WATCH
Syracuse, Irpin mark two year sister cities anniversary with youth photo exhibit

by CNY Central Staff

Sat, November 22, 2025 at 4:42 PM
Updated Sat, November 22, 2025 at 4:50 PM
Syracuse and its Ukrainian sister city, Irpin, are marking the two-year anniversary of their partnership with a special youth photography exchange called Bridges of Hope.
1
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
IRPIN
UKRAINE
YOUTH
ART EXCHANGE
PHOTOGRAPHY
RESILIENCE
CULTURAL TIES

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse and its Ukrainian sister city, Irpin, celebrated the two-year anniversary of their partnership today with a unique cross-continental youth art exchange.

The “Bridges of Hope” exhibit opened Saturday morning inside the Syracuse City Hall Commons. At the same time, an identical show was unveiled in Irpin, linking the two cities through photography created by children living nearly 5,000 miles apart.

Participants ages 7 to 11 in Syracuse’s Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs after-school program, along with children in Irpin, were given digital cameras donated by the Ukraine 1991 Foundation. Their mission: capture everyday life, the people around them, and the places that make their communities home.

“Today we’re here to exhibit an art exchange with the city of Irpin,” said Josephine Galdamez, Syracuse’s Intergovernmental Affairs Coordinator. “We’re really here to highlight the art and the culture of everyday life between the city of Syracuse and Irpin.”

The event also connected Syracuse’s youth to local history. As part of the program, the children recently toured the Onondaga Historical Association museum to learn about the city’s past.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

“It was an enriching experience,” said Robert Searing, OHA Curator of History. “OHA is proud to be associated with this wonderful program.”

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh said the exhibit is a reminder of both resilience and unity.

“Bridges of Hope honors the courage and perseverance Irpin has demonstrated in the face of Russian aggression,” Walsh said. “Through this art exchange, we are able to bring our cities closer in understanding through the lens of our future — the children.”

Syracuse and Irpin became sister cities in April 2023. Irpin, located outside Kyiv, is widely recognized for resisting and ultimately repelling Russian forces during the early stages of the 2022 invasion. Syracuse is home to one of the nation’s largest Ukrainian-American communities.

READ THE COMMENTS (1)

The youth photography exhibit will remain on display at City Hall Commons before moving inside Syracuse City Hall through the end of the year.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
The Fed didn’t cut intere st rates. Here are 5 thing s to watch next.
Fran Brown says SU foot ball will hold open QB competition "Nothing's going to be handed"
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.