Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
SPORTS
MONEY
WATCH

52°

Is a long term fix on the horizon for recurring harmful algal blooms?

by Gary Robinson Jr.

Tue, July 22, 2025 at 10:54 PM
Updated Tue, July 22, 2025 at 10:54 PM
00:01
00:00
Summer is prime time to be out on Central New York’s lakes, but one recurring problem is putting a damper on the season: harmful algal blooms.
0
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS
HABS
CYANOBACTERIA
PHOSPHORUS
NITRATES
TAUGHANNOCK FALLS STATE PARK
CAYUGA LAKE
NUTRIENT POLLUTION

ITHACA, N.Y. — Summer is prime time to be out on central New York’s lakes, but one recurring problem is putting a damper on the season: harmful algal blooms.

These harmful algal blooms, often referred to as HABs, have been causing temporary beach closures and raising health concerns for people and pets across the region. At Taughannock Falls State Park, the swimming beach has already been closed three times this July alone due to suspected blooms.

Walter Hang, president of the Environmental Health Research Group, says it’s a widespread issue with deep roots.

“These harmful algal blooms are basically Cyanobacteria,” Hang explained. “They bloom when there’s too much phosphorus and nitrates draining into the water. It’s like fertilizing your lawn — except you’re fertilizing the bacteria.”

According to Hang, nearly 200 lakes and waterways in New York have reported blooms this year. Cayuga Lake is near the top of the list with the most confirmed cases.

The recurring nature of these blooms is changing how some locals interact with the water.

“This year I saw some reports,” said a Cornell student visiting the lake. “So I’m more cautious when hanging out with friends. Like today, I brought my paddle, but I just don’t want to get in the water now.”

While state and local agencies monitor water conditions and issue alerts, advocates say those efforts aren’t addressing the root cause.

“Absolutely not,” Hang said, when asked if enough is being done.

So what would a real solution look like? Hang says it starts with stopping the nutrient pollution at its source.

“You got to keep that nutrient pollution out of the tributaries that drain into these critical bodies of water,” he said. “And you can do that by just planting shrubby willow along the edges of the fields. It prevents the stormwater from polluting the streams — and ultimately the lakes. It’s incredibly low-cost and it’s been done all over the country.”

In the meantime, the Department of Environmental Conservation urges New Yorkers to avoid swimming in water that looks green, scummy, or has an unpleasant odor. Residents can also report suspected blooms on the DEC website.

Whether a long-term fix is coming remains to be seen. For now, central New Yorkers will have to keep an eye on the shoreline.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
48-Year-Old CEO Puts $2.6B on One Stock
The Motley Fool
|
SPONSORED
U.S. Neurologists Call This Drink "Bottled Cognitive Decline" — Do You Drink It ?
Memory News
|
SPONSORED
Sciatica Is Not from a Slipped Disc. Meet the Real Enemy of Sciatica (Stop Doing This)
Smoothspine
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Oswego County man pleads guilty to insurance fraud totaling over $10,000
The hidden housing cost: How HOAs are becoming a ‘shadow mortgage’
Lee Town Court Justice resigns amid driving with suspended license investigation
TRENDING
Man convicted of rape twice arrested again for sex crimes against children
Update on Bridgeport explosion, man identified in critical condition
Vietnam Veteran receives Purple Heart, Bronze Star Medal earned in 1969
Fulton native, Siena guard Gavin Doty intends to enter transfer portal
VOTE: Would you support cutting Social Security benefits to reduce the national deficit?
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
3
Mild temperatures last until mid-afternoon Thursday before falling below freezing again
6
Snow returning to CNY Friday
3
Higher highs Wednesday and Thursday before a strong system brings big changes next!
3
Syracuse 'Howard's House' will give families affected by lead a short-term place to stay
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.