By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Mayor Ben Walsh is willing to accept more than $2.5 million in cuts the Syracuse Common Council made to his budget proposal, but council leadership isn’t interested in compromise.
Speaking with reporters after a downtown event Thursday, Walsh and Councilor Pat Hogan gave starkly different views on whether middle ground can be found between the mayor’s
$348.4 million spending plan
and the council’s adopted budget, which reduced proposed spending by
$16 million
.
Walsh said his administration will certainly file some formal objections to the more than
80-plus budget amendments
the council made to his plan, but he does not plan to oppose all of them.
He said he’ll accept at least $2.5 million in cuts in order to eliminate a 2% tax rate increase that the council rejected. That tax increase would have added about $60 to the yearly bill for the owner of a property with $100,000 assessed value.
“In the spirit of good faith and compromise, my goal is to exceed that in terms of cuts,” he said.
He does not, however, have an exact dollar figure in mind for how much cutting he’ll go along with.
“It’s less about the number and more about the impact on services and people,” Walsh said.
One type of cut targeted by council that Walsh said he’s “willing to consider” is in city departments that have consistently underspent their budgets in recent years.
But Hogan, who is running for mayor this year, said that no matter what counter-offers Walsh makes, councilors likely will override all of his objections and stick with the plan they adopted.
“I don’t think right now there is any magic number,” he said.
Hogan said he remains deeply concerned about tapping into the city’s general reserve fund to balance the budget. In addition to the tax increase, Walsh had proposed using about $27 million in reserves. The city expects to have about $120 million in that rainy day fund when the new fiscal year starts on July 1.
“That was an enormous amount of money out of the fund balance,” Hogan said.
Following the council’s budget vote last week, Walsh and several city department heads blasted the cuts, saying they would hamper their ability to provide city services. Walsh described the council’s actions as “draconian and dangerous.”
Examples of budget cut impacts included the end of special police department security details for downtown events and nighttime patrols in the Armory Square area.
Hogan called the press conference “political theater” in a statement from his campaign last week. He reiterated his position on Thursday.
“With the recent somewhat scare tactics about he’s going to cover and isn’t going to cover, I want to remind everybody the fiscal year begins July 1, which is the busy time for downtown,” he said. “To say you’re not going to cover downtown at the start of the fiscal year doesn’t make any sense.”
Hogan said the police department can continue to operate as normal, and if there comes a time when more money is needed, they can come to the council.
“We’ll be able to control that,” he said. “Frankly, the Walsh administration has sort of been a culture in which it’s a lot easier to raise taxes than it is to manage your departments.”
Walsh reached out to initiate a meeting Wednesday with Hogan, the council’s president pro tempore, and Councilor Corey Williams, chair of the council’s Taxation and Finance Committee to talk about their perspectives on the budget. He said he’s also communicating with individual councilors.
“We’re going to deliver our objections in the spirit of compromise and hope the council reciprocates,” he said.
The mayor’s objections are due 10 days after he receives the council’s budget amendments, which means Monday is this year’s deadline. The council can then consider the objections at its May 27 regular meeting.
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com