Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

Safer Streets Programs looking to progress their initiative--asking for better training

by Gary Robinson Jr.

Wed, April 9, 2025 at 7:35 AM
Updated Wed, April 9, 2025 at 10:36 AM
Program Manager of the Mayor's Office to Reduce Gun Violence Aneesah Evans speaking with Common Council Monday about the future of the Safer Streets Program.
6
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SAFER STREETS
SYRACUSE COMMON COUNCIL
GUN VIOLENCE
HIGH-RISK YOUTH
THERAPY
ON POINT FOR COLLEGE
MENTORSHIP
PROJECT HEAL

SYRACUSE, NY — Syracuse Common Council’s Public Safety Committee met Monday morning to discuss the future of the Safer Streets Program.

An initiative looking to support high risk youth and put an end to gun violence in the city.

The program began as a pilot project in 2023. Project Heal provided therapy, but in September they abruptly decided not to renew their contract —stopping the program until On Point for College joined in February.

The program targets high-risk young men, but the numbers are dwindling, only serving nine to thirteen at a time.

The future of the program is brighter now that On Point for College has taken on the contract.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Now Safer Streets is asking for not only an extension of that contract to support those in the program but for better training within.

The Safer Streets Program is hoping to provide mentorship and therapy to high-risk individuals in the program—But after the old contractor abruptly ended their contract in September—the program had to abruptly end the initiative.

“It wasn’t even a rug being ripped from underneath us; we fell off a cliff, said Program Manager of the Mayor's Office to Reduce Gun Violence Aneesah Evans.

Director of the Mayor's Office to Reduce Gun Violence Lateef Johnson-Kinsey said, “So, these young men started receiving therapy and then you abruptly just stop.”

Leaders of the program said they went to Syracuse common council to ask for the extension before finding out Project Heal was moving on abruptly —which led to them quickly finding a new contract with On Point for College.

Evans said at the meeting, “Now we move all the way to September 10th to January 27th. That is 4 months without services.”

Prompting Kinsey and company to go to Syracuse common council and push for the progression of the program, including more training and therapists that converse with the youth—saying that this type of work is... Unique.

“Some of that might be the person may not know how to read or comprehend. They can read the words, but they can’t comprehend what they are reading. They lost trust if they don’t understand," said Kinsey.

“Professor at Onondaga Community College Dr. Ednita Wright said at the meeting, "At first we felt like we don’t feel like the credible messengers knew how to engage them into being able to see therapy as a helpful piece as opposed to a harmful piece.”

Even after multiple setbacks Kinsey believes this program works, telling us a success story

“We’ve had one individual who has now been working in upstate for a year. We are actually honoring him during gun violence awareness month in June...one of our gentleman has really shown that he’s consistent with his mentor andI believe the organizations will still work with him.”

READ THE COMMENTS (6)

Other success stories Kinsey mentioned in the meeting is some in the program became entrepreneurs and most of them are working and even after leaving the program they still communicate with the therapists creating not just trust but a relationship with the youth they are providing services to.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
Lung Cancer After Workp lace Asbestos Exposure
Sokolove Law
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
The Fed didn’t cut intere st rates. Here are 5 thing s to watch next.
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.