By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — A traffic safety plan that aims to have zero fatal or serious injury crashes on Syracuse streets within 30 years now has support of the city’s lawmaking body.
The Syracuse Common Council on Monday unanimously approved a resolution supporting Mayor Ben Walsh’s
Vision Zero Action Plan
. Councilor Jimmy Monto, who chairs the council’s Transportation Committee, introduced the resolution earlier this month after a different committee
removed
a similar measure in September.
The 71-page plan identifies a small percentage of intersections and roads where a disproportionate number of serious and fatal crashes have taken place. The plan calls for prioritizing safety-focused infrastructure improvements in those areas. It also suggests an evaluation of the impact of making the city’s default speed limit 25 mph.
The plan sets the goal of no fatal or serious injury crashes by 2055, with an interim target of a 35% reduction by 2035. From 2019 to 2023, there were 563 such crashes in Syracuse, including 42 deaths.
The Vision Zero plan does not authorize funding, so the common council is not losing oversight of specific Vision Zero-related projects in the future.
Monto said he wanted to bring the measure back to the council’s agenda because having the legislative branch’s support helps ensure continuity into future mayoral administrations. In addition, he said, the council endorsement can help the city secure federal, state and private grants.
The Walsh administration first sought council approval of the plan in late June. Councilor Amir Gethers, who chairs the Public Safety Committee that initially received the request, held the proposal for much of the summer before withdrawing it. At the time, Gethers said the plan was not something for which a council vote was appropriate because it did not involve specific projects or policy.
In pursuing and adopting its plan, the city has become part of the
Vision Zero Network
, a nationwide coalition of municipalities that promotes and supports efforts aimed at improving traffic safety.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com