By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — The most divisive budget process in Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh’s tenure concluded Tuesday with city lawmakers overriding all of his vetoes and keeping more than $16 million in spending cuts in place.
Just as they have since the council
first voted
to slash the mayor’s budget proposal three weeks ago, both sides are attacking each other as being irresponsible and disingenuous.
With council chambers filled by city staffers, all nine councilors unanimously approved the
45 budget objections
Walsh sent them on May 19. None of them spoke about the budget during the meeting, but a staffer distributed a three-page press release to reporters in the room while voting was taking place.
“Look beyond the fear tactics and focus on the numbers,” the statement’s headline said.
Walsh issued a statement of his own within minutes of the meeting’s conclusion.
“Make no mistake,” he said, “this is the Common Council’s budget, and it will be harmful to constituent services, quality of life, public safety and employees.”
The adopted budget, which goes into effect July 1, keeps the city’s property tax rate flat and taps $14.4 million from the general reserves to balance the gap between anticipated spending and revenue.
The
$348.4 million
proposal Walsh gave the council in early April included a 2% property tax rate increase and took $27.1 million from the city’s savings. The city entered the budget season projecting to have about $120 million in general fund reserves at the end of the current fiscal year.
Although Walsh was willing to accept about $3.4 million of the council’s $16 million in budget cuts so the tax rate could remain flat, councilors have said the need to bring city spending in closer alignment with revenues outweighed any compromises with the administration.
“Even with our current savings, if we proceed with a deficit at the rate the mayor proposed, our rainy-day fund could be depleted in about four years,” the council said.
Walsh, though, said the council is ignoring the administration’s track record of coming in under budget for the past seven years, which has helped the city double its reserves.
“You budget for a worst-case scenario and you manage for the best,” he said during a press conference after Tuesday’s vote.
The council’s statement takes issue with how the city’s fund balance was built, claiming that federal COVID relief funds make up the entire city savings balance, and those funds are no longer available.
Walsh said that’s false, pointing to multiple years since the pandemic in which the city generated financial surpluses on top of the benefit from federal funds.
“It’s just wrong,” Walsh said. “They say things that sound good that are not based in reality.”
The council also pointed out that many of their cuts still provided spending increases when compared with the current year’s projections. That includes a 2.5% increase for the fire department, a 1.9% increase for the public works department and 2.5% more for the parks and recreation department.
The police department’s budget was trimmed by 1%, but the council said the chief can come back to council and seek more funds during the year if he needs it.
Total spending will go down under the council-amended budget by 2%. Walsh said that with the amount of costs out of the city’s control — including council-approved labor contracts, state-mandated pension contributions and escalating health insurance — the scope of the cuts will inevitably affect city services.
Walsh has charged his department heads with developing new contingency spending plans based on the numbers council has approved. The administration will provide details of those plans in about two weeks.
“We will be transparent with the Council and the public about what is coming,” he said. “If Councilors don’t support the cuts we put forth, they will have to provide alternatives.”
The council is skeptical that drastic changes are needed.
“The real danger lies not in the Common Council’s amendments, but in spending the money the city does not have,” their statement said, “forcing the consequences onto residences and shifting blame.”
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com