Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

Syracuse neighbors urged to attend public meeting on historic $348M city budget proposal

by Dale Ostrander

Mon, April 28, 2025 at 9:26 PM
Updated Tue, April 29, 2025 at 12:44 AM
Residents of Syracuse are being encouraged to attend a public meeting on Tuesday to express their views on the proposed city budget, one of the largest in the city's history. (Photo by CNY Central)
8
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
BUDGET
PUBLIC MEETING
TAX INCREASE
RESERVE FUNDS
MAYOR WALSH
COMMON COUNCIL
COMMUNITY CONCERNS

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Residents of Syracuse are being encouraged to attend a public meeting on Tuesday to express their views on the proposed city budget, one of the largest in the city's history. The meeting, scheduled for 5:30 p.m., will allow community members to voice their opinions before the Common Council makes any amendments.

Syracuse Mayor Walsh's proposed budget raises taxes and water rates by 2%

Mayor Ben Walsh has proposed a $348 million budget, which includes a 2% tax increase. The city has already withdrawn approximately $27 million from its reserve funds to balance the budget. Councilor Corey Williams expressed concerns about the budget, stating, "Part of what we want to do is to try to minimize the expense of the taxpayers and do so in a responsible manner. If we're able to get that deficit down to a more manageable number, and that relies so much on our savings, that would be a really good thing in our opinion."


Syracuse Councilors Hogan and Majok oppose proposed tax hike amid reserve surplus

Councilor Marty Nave, who has consistently opposed increasing budgets, urged residents to attend the meeting and share their supports or concerns about the budget. "We amongst us are hearing the concerns of our constituents, another tax increase. Well now, we want to hear from you. We want you to validate what we have been saying," said Nave.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

In a historic move, City Auditor Alexander Marion released a report on the budget proposal, marking the first time an auditor has reviewed such a proposal in Syracuse.

Marion warned that the budget asks a shrinking tax base to shoulder the highest property tax the city has ever seen. "We can draw $27 million out of our reserve fund now. We can draw $27 million out of our reserve fund next year if we need it. It will be very hard to do that after that. I think we need to do a more thoughtful, conscientious job as a city of long-term budget projections, figuring out where we're going to be with salaries, with our labor contracts, with our pension and healthcare expenses down the road and planned accordingly because, yes, we have a healthy reserve fund today. That will not be the case down the road.," said Marion.

READ THE COMMENTS (8)

The Common Council plans to consider public comments and departmental feedback to propose amendments to the budget by next Wednesday, May 7th.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
The Fed didn’t cut intere st rates. Here are 5 thing s to watch next.
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.