By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Facing chronic budget deficits, city officials in Syracuse had hoped to raise millions of dollars by selling off a century-old school building that sits on more than two acres in the fastest growing part of the city.
That was a year ago.
Keep Watching
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
Iran’s ‘WORST’ Cluster Missile ATTACK On Ramat Gan — Iron Dome Bypassed? Tel Aviv Rocked | Iran War
But plans to sell the school administration building at 725 Harrison St. have bogged down. Since issuing a
request for proposals
in March 2024, city officials have been quietly negotiating with at least two potential buyers who responded with offers, said Matthew Oja, assessment commissioner.
At this point, there is no end in sight to the negotiations, he said.
One of the bidders is nearby SUNY Upstate Medical University, which wants to incorporate the Harrison Street building into its expansion plans, said Darryl Geddes, speaking for the state medical college.
The teaching hospital received
$450 million in capital funds
this year in the state budget.
“With the recent approval of New York state’s budget, which includes funding for a new hospital annex, Upstate is taking steps to prepare for growth in both clinical services and academic programming,” Geddes said. “As a result, Upstate anticipates a growing need for accessible, strategically located space in close proximity to its core campus.”
Neither Upstate nor the city would divulge how much the university has offered to pay for the building, a century-old elementary school that now serves as the school district’s administrative office. City officials declined to identify any of the bidders or how much they would pay.
But last month a new $10 million offer came in from a California developer who had not responded to the RFP. That purchase offer, combined with the developer’s plan to build roughly 400 market-rate apartments on the site, has focused new attention on the long-delayed property sale.
Common Councilor Pat Hogan, who is running for mayor, has consistently said he would prefer a sale to a private owner who would pay property taxes. He questioned whether SUNY Upstate, which has been notoriously slow to develop some of its vacant property, is tying up a valuable parcel that could provide much-needed housing.
The university is hampered by the need to get money and approvals from Albany, he said.
“They’re at the mercy of the state legislature,’’ Hogan said. “They have to go by what they say, not only as far as acquiring money but the decisions that they’re making.’’
Upstate has owned a
vacant 199-unit apartment tower
off South Townsend Street for 15 years with no plans for redevelopment. The tower is used occasionally for firefighter training. The university also owns approximately
eight acres of vacant land
on and around the site of the former Kennedy Square housing complex.
The new purchase offer for 725 Harrison was delivered to Hogan and two other councilors by Norm Roth, a prominent Syracuse landlord and real estate broker with ties to Hogan.
Roth, of University Hill Realty, represents Ascent Property Co., of Culver City, Calif., a developer of student housing.
In an informal letter of interest to the city, Roth said Ascent Property would build a market-rate apartment complex worth $50.4 million. Under the city’s zoning rules, 12% of the units would have to qualify as affordable housing. Roth estimated the complex would pay more than $380,000 a year in property taxes.
Roth has donated $6,000 to
Hogan’s mayoral campaign
through two companies he controls, according to Board of Elections records. Roth declined to comment.
The original RFP said the city would prefer developments that “1) ... Consider affordability and transit accessibility; 2) return the site to the tax roll and increase the City’s tax base; 3) create new permanent job opportunities for Syracuse residents; and 4) add housing units.”
City officials said the Ascent offer might be attractive if it had arrived in response to the RFP, which closed a year ago last May. At this point, they can’t reopen the deal, they said.
Susan Katzoff, the city’s corporation counsel, said the city can’t accept a new purchase offer while it is actively negotiating with bidders who responded to the RFP. If officials decided that none of the offers was satisfactory, they could potentially reopen the bidding, she said.
In addition to arriving late, the letter of intent from Ascent Property did not respond to some of the questions asked by the RFP, which requires extensive information, Oja said.
“Nobody would turn up their nose at … housing in that spot, or $10 million,” Oja said. “We would consider that fairly, on a plane with the others, except it’s been submitted in a way that’s not on the plane with the others.”
Upstate officials did not describe their specific plans for 725 Harrison, but said the property is attractive because it’s surrounded by other Upstate facilities.
“The building’s location is in immediate proximity to key Upstate clinical properties, including Upstate’s Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Building at 713 Harrison St. and across the street from Upstate’s Golisano Children’s Pavilion, 655 Madison St.,’’ Geddes said.
Hogan said Upstate officials reached out last summer and met with him to talk about their interest in the property. He said they mentioned tentative plans for a juvenile mental health facility.
In order to sell 725 Harrison, the city will have to find new office space for about 150 school district employees who work there. That process, too, is moving at a snail’s pace.
Four months ago, the city commissioned an appraisal of a building owned by SUNY Upstate that could potentially house school administrators. The former Benjamin Rush Center, at 626-72 S. Salina St., has plenty of space and is conveniently located near the STEAM school currently under construction, Oja said.
But the city has not submitted an offer on the building and continues to look around for other sites, Oja said. There is no urgency because the earliest the school district could move from Harrison Street would be next summer, he said.
“It is just an option,’’ Oja said.
RECOMMENDED
Modernize SEQRA to address Upstate NY’s housing challenges (Guest Opinion by Michael Barrett)
Mar. 23, 2026, 8:30 a.m.
Thousands of Upstate NY businesses face utility shutoffs sparked by hefty power bills
Mar. 23, 2026, 6:33 p.m.
If the deals ever come together, they will need approval from the Common Council to proceed.
Staff writer Tim Knauss can be reached at:
email
|
Twitter
| 315-470-3023.
Tim Knauss
Tim Knauss is a watchdog reporter on the public affairs team at Syracuse.com, with four decades of experience covering Central New York. Knauss has written about a variety of subjects recently including unfair...
more
tknauss@syracuse.com