News
Mayor's budget plan includes tax hike for Syracuse residents, investment in city resources
WAER | By Scott Willis
Published April 9, 2025 at 5:08 PM EDT
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
LISTEN • 1:33
Max Mimaroglu
/
Max Mimaroglu For WAER
Syracuse's City Hall

Syracuse homeowners face a 2% property tax increase under Mayor Ben Walsh’s final budget proposal for next year. Rising costs and declining revenue are making it difficult to balance the $348 million spending plan.

Some of the expenses driving the increases are out of the city’s control, such as retirement, medical insurance, salaries, and wages. Mayor Walsh said property owners are being asked to help.

“We do not take that lightly,” Walsh said. "We understand that many of our constituents are facing the same financial struggles that we are. But ultimately, in order to be able to deliver the services that those very same constituents deserve, we think that this is an appropriate and responsible proposal.”

Walsh said the higher tax rate translates to a $57 increase for a home assessed at $100,000. In all, it will raise an additional $6.6 million. He’s also proposing to borrow $27 million from the city’s $120 million rainy day fund.

Walsh said a concern is a projected drop in sales tax revenue.

“In light of what's nationally and globally with the tariffs, there's a lot of uncertainty out there," Walsh said. "The fact that our biggest revenue source, sales tax, is the most vulnerable to that uncertainty, it requires us to be conservative in our approach."

Walsh said he also isn’t counting on an increase in state aid, which is the second largest source of revenue. He says a proposed $5 million increase is in the state budget, but it falls far short of what’s needed.

“That formula hasn't changed in over fifteen years, when virtually everything else has changed," Walsh said. "When you look at how much the state 's budget has increased, how much school district budgets have increased, it doesn't make sense that the aim formula doesn't change.”

This is also the first budget in three fiscal years without federal pandemic relief funds.

The common council begins reviewing the budget Thursday. They must approve a final spending plan by May 8.

HIGHLIGHTS FROM WALSH'S BUDGET PROPOSAL

$1 million General Fund allocation to Syracuse Housing Strategies Corporation
Two additional code enforcement inspectors for compliance with property maintenance requirements to improve neighborhood quality of life and safety
Increased third-party permit reviewers to further accelerate reviews and meet demand for growing investment in Syracuse
Development of Syracuse Comprehensive Plan 2050 to establish a strategic, community-led vision for future growth and development in our community
Funding for approximately 800 jobs for summer youth and adult workforce development
Continue city apprenticeships in Building Maintenance and Trades
Department of Public Works and Parks staffing for expansion of Geographic Information System (GIS) capabilities to improve responsiveness and turnaround time on service requests and maintenance projects
Planned 27 miles in road reconstruction
Planned six miles in sidewalk maintenance and reconstruction
Restructuring Information Technology, Digital Services and API organizational framework for enhanced project oversight and implementation
Implement automated school zone traffic enforcement (red light and speed) following launch of bus stop arm enforcement in FY25
Introduce STRIVE program in City of Syracuse in coordination with Onondaga County to enhance response to intimate partner abuse and domestic violence and better address needs of survivors
Implement SPD Drone First Responder program
Funding for new Police Academy classes
Reopen Fire Station 12 on West Genesee Street near Downtown
New class of Syracuse firefighters
Restoration begins of Westminster Park stairs
Upgrades to Thornden stage and amphitheater
Renovation of Thornden and Onondaga Pools
Improvements to Pass Arboretum
Splash pad water feature at Cummings Field
Scott Willis
/
WAER News
Mayor Ben Walsh shares his budget proposal with common councilors Apr. 9, 2025.