By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse’s
historic Thornden Park
is filled with brick and paved pathways but they generally don’t connect.
A test project suggested by some city residents will change that.
Volunteers with the nonprofit
Thornden Park Association
joined with city parks staff on Saturday to install the first of three mulched trail sections in the park that will connect with existing paths to form a 1-mile loop. The park on the city’s East Side next to Syracuse University’s main campus is the city’s second largest.
Kate Auwaerter, the city’s preservation planner who is also a member of the park association, recently presented the project to the Syracuse Landmark Preservation Board. She said the looped path idea came from neighborhood residents Alex and Katie Lawson, who are helping to spearhead the project.
On a hot summer morning last weekend, about 10 volunteers and park staff installed about 500 feet of mulched trail near the park pool. The Onondaga County Resource Recovery Agency donated the mulch, while the parks department supplied tools.
They plan to tackle a larger section next month that runs from the park’s rose garden along the tree line next to the athletic field to the amphitheater. Interested volunteers can contact
thorndenpark@gmail.com
to learn more about how to participate.
The final mulched section targeted for this year would run along the park tennis courts into an adjacent wooded area. Next year, they plan to restore an existing brick-path loop behind and below the water tower that is largely obscured and inaccessible by heavy brush.
Auwaerter said the park association and the city decided to do the mulched paths as an inexpensive and quick way to see if there’s enough interest to warrant more permanent looped paths, lighting and even signage.
“If it flops, the mulch trail will eventually disappear,” Auwaerter said. “But we don’t think it will flop. I think it’s going to be a very popular new asset to the park.”
The city opened Thornden Park in 1921 after purchasing the land and gardens from the widow of Major Alexander Davis, a former congressman’s son. He had acquired it from the estate of a business associate named James Haskins, who was a salt magnate.
At 76 acres, Thornden is the city’s second largest park, behind the 88-acre Burnet Park. Thornden is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Volunteers and Syracuse parks staff are installing three mulched trails in Thornden Park, shown in yellow, to connect existing paths shown in purple that will create a 1-mile loop. (City of Syracuse)
City of Syracuse
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com