By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – For years before a suspected
arson fire
destroyed its roof and top floor, vandals and thieves came and went as they pleased from the historic St. Anthony’s Convent building on Syracuse’s North Side.
Sometimes, the bad actors felt so emboldened, they did their deeds in broad daylight.
One January day, John Meyer saw a commercial van on the convent’s grounds. The operation was so bold, it must be above board, thought Meyer, a member of
the Washington Square Neighborhood Watch group.
“It turned out to be thieves stripping copper off the roof of the chapel and stealing light fixtures,” he said. “But I thought it was legitimate. It was so brazen that everybody thought it was legal.”
The Sisters of St. Francis turned over the keys to their century-old convent, where
Saint Marianne Cope
once lived, to developer Mark Congel a decade ago.
He got the six-acre property with six buildings — including ones that once housed the Gingerbread House day care and the NunBetter chocolate shop — for just $500,000. For decades, the campus was also home to Maria Regina College, a junior college for women. The chapel dated back to 1949.
But Congel never moved forward his development plans.
Instead, he stopped paying for private security to watch over the place, he told syracuse.com | The Post-Standard. He wrapped a chain-link fence around it, which people easily cut. They stole stained-glass windows, smashed the organ and sprayed graffiti in the former chapel.
Over time, he left it up to city crews to mow the grass and re-board its doors and windows after trespassers tore off the plywood securing them.
The vandals and thieves and arsonists had no trouble finding their way back in.
A fire that police suspect was intentionally set broke out the night of March 21 in the 129-year-old former motherhouse of the Sisters of St. Francis. It
took firefighters 24 hours
to extinguish the flames.
In the end, the 19th century building’s roof, fourth floor and parts of its third floor were gone.
City officials
ordered an emergency demolition
of the building, saying it was too badly damaged to be repaired and posed a danger of collapsing.
And they are blaming Congel for not doing more to protect the building.
Mayor Ben Walsh, normally reserved,
called Congel out at a news conference two days after the fire
.
“This property owner has let this neighborhood down, has let this city down,” said Walsh, whose mother went to college on the campus and whose daughter attended day care there.
Walsh’s commissioner of business and neighborhood development echoed the mayor’s frustration.
“If you have the financial capital to buy a campus, it is reasonable to expect you to maintain it,” Michael Collins said.
Congel told syracuse.com | The Post-Standard that city officials “have a right to be upset about what happened” to the convent. But he said he was limited in what he could do to protect it.
‘We want to keep everything’
Congel, the son of the late
Destiny USA founder Robert Congel
, bought the convent and its associated buildings from the sisters in 2015, the year after they moved to a new facility in Salina.
Long a North Side anchor, the campus takes up the corner of Court Street and Grant Boulevard.
Its oldest building, the four-story motherhouse where the nuns lived, was designed by famed Syracuse architect Archimedes Russell and built in 1896. It boasted a majestic exterior and an interior filled with beautifully maintained wainscoting and other wood paneling.
Congel had plans to turn the campus, including the motherhouse, into 175 apartments, a welcome idea for a working-class neighborhood without a lot of new construction. He even talked of making copies of historical photos of the convent, as well as Russell’s drawings, and displaying them in the buildings when his redevelopment was completed.
“We want to keep everything,” he said.
For the first few years of ownership, Congel provided security and took care of the buildings, Collins confirmed. Congel even let city police use the site for training its K-9 unit.
“We were working together,” he said. “It was not adversarial.”
But redeveloping the site into apartments was never going to be cheap or easy.
The motherhouse was the only building on the campus suited for residential use because that’s where the nuns lived. But their rooms were way too small for modern apartments, so any development was going to require knocking down a lot of walls.
And most of the other buildings on the campus consisted of classroom and office space that would require gutting them before apartments could be built in them — an expensive proposition.
Congel had a track record of redeveloping historic buildings in the city. But he was unable to get financing to launch his redevelopment of the former convent.
An easy target
As Congel’s caretaking slipped and the grass grew, the property began to look abandoned. It quickly became
easy target
.
Without having to worry about getting caught, thieves and vandals went to town on the entire site. They
ripped out the buildings’ copper plumbing and wiring, broke windows, punched holes in its walls and wrote graffiti everywhere. In 2022, someone
set a fire
that damaged the site’s gymnasium.
That same year, Congel finally found a way out.
He cut a deal to sell the property to a family-owned Rochester company, Home Leasing LLC, that wanted to turn it into apartments for
low-income seniors
.
Vandals and thieves had heavily damaged the chapel at the former Sisters of St. Francis convent in Syracuse when this photo was taken in 2023. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
That deal is still in the works, Congel and city officials confirmed, though Congel remains the owner.
But in the intervening years, the property kept falling apart.
The city placed the building on its vacant structures list and began to send code and fire inspectors to the site almost every week to keep an eye on it, Collins said.
The city even sent crews to board up its buildings, cut the grass and remove liter, and repair security fencing around the site — because Congel wouldn’t. It added the cost (nearly $40,000 last year alone) to Congel’s property tax bill.
Even so, the trespassers kept coming back, cutting new holes in the fence and ripping off the plywood boarding from its doors and windows almost as soon as the repairs were made.
“You can get into that place 20 different ways,” said Meyer, the neighborhood watch member. “I’m 75 and disabled, and I could get in.”
Vandals had free rein at the former Sisters of St. Francis convent in Syracuse for years before a fire ravaged its historic motherhouse. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
No returned phone calls
As the site deteriorated, Walsh’s previously friendly relationship with Congel deteriorated with it. The mayor said Congel stopped returning his phone calls.
Congel objects to city officials portraying him as an absentee landlord. He noted that he successfully redeveloped three historic buildings in the city into apartments — the
Amos
near Clinton Square,
Destiny Arms
in Franklin Square and the former West Genesee United Methodist Church, now named
The Geddes
.
As for the mayor’s calls, Congel said he does not remember getting any in the last few years.
“I’m sorry he feels that way,” he said. “Obviously, if I got a phone call from the mayor, I would return it.”
Congel said he paid for 24-hour security at the site until several years ago. He said he stopped it because he could no longer afford to keep paying “tens of thousands” of dollars a month on a vacant property generating no revenue.
“Cash has been a bit of an issue,” he said last week.
He said he let the city mow the grass, repair the fencing and re-board the buildings — and send the bill to him — because it has better resources than he does and could get the job done better and faster.
But those bandages did little to stop the problem.
“Unfortunately, it just got to the point where we just could not control access to it,” he said. “The vandals came right back in. It’s not a unique situation.”
Mark Congel stands in the chapel of the former Sisters of St. Francis convent in 2015, shortly after he bought the property. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Meyer said the city should have done more than board up the buildings and repair the site’s chain link fencing. It should have seized the property and stationed guards to watch over it, he said.
“Congel is responsible,” he said. “But what do you do, let this stuff go to hell or do you take action?”
But the city was limited, in large part because Congel kept paying his taxes. As long as he paid those bills, the city had no legal authority to seize the property, Collins said.
Syracuse officials have ordered the emergency demolition of the historic motherhouse at the former Sisters of St. Francis convent after fire ravaged the building March 21 and 22, 2025. (N. Scott Trimble | strimble@syracuse.com)
N. Scott Trimble | strimble@syracuse.com
Like losing a family member
The Sisters of St. Francis had searched for a buyer for the property for two years before getting just a single offer — from Congel.
“These were buildings built for specific purposes,” said Rochelle Cassella, director of communications for the Sisters of St. Francis. “So how do you use them or renovate them? You’ve got to find someone with the foresight and finances.”
The sale included no formal agreement regarding the future care of the site, but the sisters assumed the buyer would maintain it until he could redevelop it, she said.
But as the years went by, the sisters began getting calls from people concerned about the damage that was occurring at their former home, she said.
“We were disappointed that he wasn’t maintaining the property because we didn’t want to see anybody hurt and we wanted it to be something useful,”