By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Two Syracuse brothers who started out buying $1 homes have built a multi-state real estate empire worth $275 million.
While in their 20s, Colin and Greg Cleghorn became among Syracuse’s biggest residential landlords. Now in their 30s, they have pivoted to being among the state’s most prolific buyers of industrial properties.
Driving the shift for Syracuse’s property brothers? The rapid growth of e-commerce, which is greatly increasing the need for warehousing and distribution centers throughout the country.
The founders of IronHorn Enterprises sold their residential portfolio of 200 apartments for $15 million, and now own more than 100 industrial properties worth an estimated $275 million in 17 states.
In the last five years, they have bought more industrial properties in New York — 38 — than any other investment group, according to the commercial real estate data site CoStar.
The growth of IronHorn Enterprises has created dozens of local jobs, with more on the way.
The property brothers run their operation out of a former building materials supply facility on North Burdick Street in Manlius. Their acquisition team of more than 30 people seeks out properties to buy, many of them not even listed publicly for sale.
“They’re banging out 150 to 200 phone calls a day looking all over the country for off-market properties that we can buy and lease to companies,” said Greg, 35.
The brothers’ recent purchases include the 603,000-square-foot former
Rite Aid distribution center
on Henry Clay Boulevard in Clay, which they bought in April for $27 million, and a vacant 80,000-square-foot warehouse on Hiawatha Boulevard East that they
bought from the Central New York Regional Market
in June for $2 million.
Greg and Colin Cleghorn, of IronHorn Enterprises, bought the former Rite Aid distribution center on Henry Clay Boulevard in Clay for $27 million in April 2025. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
They say they have potential tenants interested in the former Rite Aid facility and have an agreement to lease the warehouse on Hiawatha Boulevard to Beak & Skiff Apple Orchards, which plans to use it to store its 1911 brand of hard cider and spirits.
Mucking stalls
The Cleghorns grew up on Syracuse’s South Side and later moved with their family to a rural community south of the city. That’s where they learned at an early age that they wanted to work for themselves, not somebody else.
While in high school, the brothers worked on a farm mucking stalls and milking cows for $4 an hour. It was hard work for little pay.
“That was part of the motivation to go to school, because I didn’t want to be a farmer my whole life,” said Greg. “I have a ton of respect for them because they work way harder than anybody else. That was the point. You’ve got to milk the cows every day, no matter what. You get up at 3:30 in the morning to milk the cows.”
Then Greg went door to door selling knives on commission one summer, and Colin helped a buddy fix up cars and sell them.
That little taste of entrepreneurial life convinced the brothers to start their own business some day.
“Both of us kind of realized like, hey, if we can get into an industry where however hard you work you get rewarded, that’s the direction we want to go,“ said Colin, 33.
While still in high school, Greg bought a fire-damaged house on Genesee Park Drive with two friends, fixed it up and began renting it out. While attending Le Moyne College, he received part of the home’s rental income. That gave the brothers the idea of becoming landlords.
“We kept talking about different businesses we could potentially start, and we talked about car dealerships and whatnot,” Colin said.
“And Greg said, ‘Well, I really like this passive thing. There’s a property management group. They take care of the property, and I’m just getting this check every month. We could just multiply that.’ ”
After Greg graduated from college, the brothers decided to start buying residential properties, fix them up and rent them out. They formed Cleghorn Properties LLC in 2014.
“I was at OCC at the time, and you know, that was going great, but I said, ‘Hey, if we’re gonna start our own business, I’m happy to drop out, and let’s do that,, ” Colin said.
Over the next six years, they bought 200 apartments spread over 120 properties — mainly single-family homes and duplexes but also some larger apartment buildings.
Their model was to buy homes cheap — most were vacant properties in foreclosure — fix them up and rent them out. Two-thirds of the homes were in the city, the rest in surrounding communities.
“We were buying the majority of them in foreclosure auctions right at the courthouse downtown,” said Colin.
“We bought rough stuff to start and we’d fix them up,” Greg said. “We pulled in friends, some of which still work here.”
They bought some of the homes for as little as $1, later moving up to paying $20,000 to $50,000.
Once they fixed them up and rented them out, they would refinance the properties, which were then worth much more than they paid for them, and use the money to buy more homes.
A pivot to commercial real estate
The formula worked. But in 2019, the Cleghorns decided to go in a different direction.
Greg went to work as a commercial real estate agent for BellCornerstone. While marketing former Gannett printing press facilities, he noticed an increasing demand for industrial properties that can be used for warehousing and distribution.
The reason? The growth of e-commerce was boosting the need for companies that needed places to store and distribute products being sold online and to maintain the vehicles used in their delivery networks.
Greg said he soon realized that the buyers of industrial properties “are making the most money.”
“They buy these big, open box buildings and lease them out,“ he said. ”If the tenant ever leaves, you just put another one in there.“
Managing industrial properties is also much easier than running a bunch of residential buildings, he said.
“When you have hundreds of sinks and hundreds of toilets, you’ve got to have a giant management arm to handle all that because when tenants have any problem, they call you as the landlord and say, ‘Fix it,’” said Greg.
Not so with industrial tenants. They typically sign five- to 10-year leases, so turnover is much less than with residential tenants, who generally sign one-year leases, he said. And second, industrial tenants typically sign leases that make them, not the landlord, responsible for maintaining the buildings they are renting, he said.
“You have what I call big boy tenants,” Greg said. “So you can own properties states away and if there’s an HVAC problem or they have a guy with a forklift who puts a hole in a wall, they just call someone to fix it.”
The next move
It wasn’t long before the Cleghorns decided to invest in industrial properties. In 2019, they bought their first — a vacant building on South Bay Road in Cicero that was formerly the home of an electrical equipment supplier. They bought it for $1 million and are now renting it to another electrical contractor.
Over the next two years, they sold their residential holdings to other investors and began buying up industrial properties.
Finding the buying the right properties takes time and a lot of legwork.
“We want to get eyes on properties,” Greg said. “A lot of times, we’re taking tenants through them and asking, does this property work for you? Great. We’ll buy it and lease it to you. Real estate is very much a hands-on endeavor.”
Their industrial holdings now stretch from across New York and to Alabama, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee and West Virginia.
The Cleghorns employ 66 people, including 29 hired this year. When they began the pivot to industrial real estate, they had 10 employees.
They have financed their industrial property purchases the same way they did when they built their residential portfolio. After buying a property, they fix it up and lease it to a tenant. Then, they borrow against it using the property’s increased value.
The borrowed money is then used to buy more properties. Occasionally, a property is sold to generate money for additional purchases.
“We joke that, hey, it would have been fun if we just started out as trust fund babies and we had $50 million to play with, but we didn’t,” Greg said. “So, it’s all been about adding value, where we’re buying it cheap, we’re fixing it up so that we can refinance it or sell it.”
The Central New York Regional Market Authority bought a warehouse on Hiawatha Boulevard East in 2020 for $2.2 million with hopes of leasing it out to boost the market’s revenues. But it did not work out.
IronHorn Enterprises, founded by Greg and Colin Cleghorn, bought this warehouse on Hiawatha Boulevard East in Syracuse from the Central New York Regional Market for $2 million in June 2025. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
The market found it could not lease out the warehouse because, among other things, its roof leaked and the market could not afford to replace it. As a result, the market got stuck making $12,900 monthly mortgage payments for nearly five years on a building that was generating zero revenue.
The Cleghorns bought it for $2 million — $200,000 less than the market paid for the building. They are now in the process of fixing it up, including replacing its roof. Beak & Skiff is scheduled to move in next month.
“We’re doing kind of a classic what we do,” said Greg. “We take an old, beat-up building. Now we’re putting a new roof on it and we’ll put Beak & Skiff in there.”
The $27 million they paid for the former Rite Aid distribution center is the most they have ever paid for a property.
Greg said they had tried to buy the building five years earlier, while Rit