By
Michelle Breidenbach | mbreidenbach@syracuse.com
Calvin Corriders stepped down from the Syracuse Housing Authority’s board of directors Thursday with one year left in his five-year term.
Corriders has served as board president for two years. That term was up, he said.
Corriders, 62, of Syracuse, said he decided to dedicate time to other volunteer board positions and to his family. He is retired from Pathfinder Bank, where he was regional president.
Corriders also serves on the boards of Excellus Blue Cross/Blue Shield, the National Grid Foundation and the SUNY Upstate Advisory Board.
Mayor Ben Walsh appointed Corriders to the housing authority board in 2022. It is an unpaid position.
Corriders became board president just as the housing authority was about to embark on an ambitious $1 billion project. The authority, with national developer McCormack Baron Salazar, plans to tear down whole neighborhoods of public housing and build new apartment buildings to house current residents and tenants paying market-rate rents. The neighborhood, called “East Adams,” has housing on both sides of the elevated Interstate 81 bridge expected to be torn down over the next three years.
Corriders came under fire in February 2024 after he and Director Bill Simmons hatched a plan that would have allowed SUNY Upstate
to build a $125 million optometry school
on land to be vacated by 86-year-old public housing units.
It broke trust among residents and advocates who have feared for years that the hospitals and universities had a secret plan to take over the land used for decades for public housing.
The massive housing redevelopment project has suffered delays. It is expected to begin this year with demolition of the first 25 units.
It has also suffered criticism from city officials and a non-profit group that had plans to build
a $31.5 million children’s learning center
and YMCA in the new neighborhood.
The non-profit group Blueprint 15, funded by the Allyn Foundation, dropped the plans earlier this year. Allyn Foundation Director Meg O’Connell said she had no confidence in the housing authority’s director Bill Simmons.
Walsh
has also questioned SHA’s leadership and, earlier this year, invited some board members to step down.
Corriders said the mayor did not ask for his resignation.
He said the mayor appointed him to the board because of his experience with governance and 40 years in the finance industry.
Corriders said Thursday that he believes the housing authority’s staff is competent, but faces a capacity issue. He said the authority is working to address staffing issues.
RECOMMENDED
Syracuse.com’s 2026 media day baseball coach poll: Most likely to have breakout season? (photos)
Mar. 20, 2026, 12:06 a.m.
School closings in Central NY: Delays for a second day this week (Wednesday March 18)
Mar. 18, 2026, 9:18 p.m.
He said he is confident the housing authority will break ground on the project in December, even during a federal government shutdown.
“Those things are going to happen,” he said. “At the end of the day, we’re going to get these residents in renovated housing.”
Corriders said he does not have anyone in mind to replace him on the board. It will be up to Walsh to appoint a new board member.
Michelle Breidenbach
Michelle Breidenbach covers immigration, Interstate 81, rebuilding the East Adams neighborhood, real estate assessment, property taxes, lead paint poisoning and other public affairs topics for Syracuse.com and...
more
mbreidenbach@syracuse.com