By
Glenn Coin | gcoin@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. —
Micron Technology
is getting ready to install its new logo on a prominent downtown Syracuse office building.
It’s a small but highly visible step in the company’s plans to build a massive factory complex that could transform the Central New York economy.
The company is already renovating offices
and a welcome center in the One Lincoln Center building, at the corner of Fayette and Clinton streets. Micron has now obtained a permit from the city of Syracuse to install a sign at the top of the 18-story building.
The sign would be 8 feet high and 40 feet long, according to the application filed with the city. Installation would cost $115,000, the application said.
Micron’s new sign would replace the Chase bank sign and logo on the east side of the building.
Micron declined to say when the sign would be erected.
Micron is also renovating the entire eighth floor of the building for offices, a conference room and a cafeteria. The company is also creating a welcome center on part of the first floor.
The offices and welcome center are scheduled to open by early fall, a company spokesman said. They were initially slated to open this spring.
A year ago, Micron said it had hired about two dozen employees in Central New York. The company has not responded to requests for more recent information on hiring. Micron’s careers website lists only one job, senior buyer, tied to Central New York.
The principal architect on the project said
Micron would initially have
about 35 employees in the offices, with room for up to 80.
Micron plans to build
up to four chipmaking factories at the corner of Route 31 and Caughdenoy Road in Clay. The project, which could cost $100 billion and employ 9,000 people, would be the largest private investment in New York state history.
The company also says it will build offices at the factory site.
This artist's rendering shows Micron Technology's planned first-floor welcome center in the One Lincoln Center building, at the corner of Fayette and Clinton streets in downtown Syracuse. (Courtesy of in-Architects)
in-Architects
Micron sales, profits soar to new heights as CNY chip project gets underway
Micron will hold school break week events for students, job seekers and volunteers
Starting over at ShoppingTown: County takes second shot at finding a developer for dead mall
County Democrats approve district for Micron’s industrial wastewater, but demand more transparency
Demand for OCC’s Micron and tech classes is outpacing the school’s ability to hire faculty
Glenn Coin
Glenn Coin is the science and technology, weather and environment reporter for syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. He also covers Micron Technology's plans to build a leading-edge semiconductor plant in Central...
more
gcoin@syracuse.com