By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – The state of New York is providing $8.5 million to turn the long-vacant former
Sears Roebuck store
on Syracuse’s South Side into a semiconductor workforce training hub.
Gov. Kathy Hochul said Friday the
ON-RAMP
Workforce Innovation Hub will serve as a critical gateway for both job seekers and manufacturing and construction firms supporting the region’s growing demand for skilled workers, anchored by
Micron Technology
Inc.’s $100 billion commitment in Onondaga County.
“Too many communities in Upstate New York have been left out and left behind for generations -- and I’m fighting to bring them back,” she said in a statement. “This new ON-RAMP center in Syracuse will be a critical part of the new I-90 advanced manufacturing corridor, giving New Yorkers the skills and training necessary for a good-paying job.”
When the art deco-style Sears store opened at 1300 S. Salina St. on Oct. 3, 1929, an estimated 900 people stood in line waiting for the doors to open.
The Syracuse Herald described the store as “one of the most attractive mercantile buildings erected in Syracuse” and said it would occupy a “commanding position at an end of busy Salina Street rapidly coming into its own.”
The store boasted more than 60,000 square feet of selling space and even had an automobile service center.
Sears closed the store when it opened a location at the new Fayetteville Mall in 1974. The South Salina Street building has remained mostly vacant ever since while the neighborhood around it fell into poverty.
The former Sears Roebuck store at 1300 S. Salina St. in Syracuse will be turned into a semiconductor workforce training hub under New York's ON-RAMP initiative. The store has been vacant since 1974. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
But life has started to change in the neighborhood more recently.
JMA Wireless
opened a large manufacturing center and headquarters nearby in 2022 and is already making plans to
expand it
.
In addition, the Syracuse Community Health Center’s opened its new
$22.5 million home
nearby. And plans are in the works for the a mixed-use project called
Salina 1st
in the neighborhood.
Hochul said the flagship workforce training hub will anchor a broader revitalization of the former Sears site, led by the city of Syracuse and CenterState CEO.
The board of directors of Empire State Development, the state’s economic development arm, approved the funding for the hub on Thursday.
The funding is part of Hochul’s broader $200 million ON-RAMP initiative, with additional workforce training hubs planned for the Capital Region, the Mohawk Valley and the Finger Lakes.
Training at the four hubs will be based on a successful model developed by the
Northland Workforce Development Training Center
in Buffalo, state officials said.
Northland’s model works by reducing the major barriers that prohibit students from enrolling and completing post-secondary education like transportation, child care, academic readiness and affordability.
Collectively, the four centers will combine industry, academia, social services, organized labor and community organizations to provide high-quality, in-demand training, officials said.
Staff for the Syracuse hub will be temporarily housed at CenterState CEO’s downtown offices while the former Sears location is redeveloped.
The former Sears Roebuck store at 1300 S. Salina St. in Syracuse will be turned into a semiconductor workforce training hub under New York's ON-RAMP initiative. The store has been vacant since 1974. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Initial training programs will focus on career exploration, English for speakers of other languages, financial empowerment and trade-specific skills for construction and manufacturing.
Construction training will include skills leading to apprenticeships and trade-specific skills. Manufacturing training will focus on entry-level assembly and middle-skill technician training, including Onondaga Community College Electrical Mechanical Technician training.
In the first year, training programs are expected to serve between 150 and 200 people.
CenterState CEO plans to hold monthly virtual town hall meetings to report on progress and hear from partners directly, officials said.
Micron is expected to break ground later this year on a massive semiconductor fabrication plant in Clay.
The company says the plant will cost up to $100 billion to build and employ up to 9,000 people. In addition, the company says the project will create more than 40,000 other jobs at supply chain and other employers.
Lawsuit: Company behind Taste of Syracuse, Nationals used events as collateral for $1M loan then defaulted
Skaneateles Lake estate hits the market for jaw-dropping $21 million (photos)
3 Syracuse hotels became student apartments. In a first, one landlord is going the other direction
If you’re flying out of Syracuse airport, here’s what just changed with parking and pickups
Dozens of $175K modular homes might soon be on the market in Syracuse. Here’s how to buy one
Rick Moriarty covers business news and consumer issues. Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact him anytime:
Email
|
X
|
Facebook
| 315-470-3148
Rick Moriarty
I report on business news and consumer issues for The Post-Standard and syracuse.com. I can be reached at (315) 470-3148.
rmoriarty@syracuse.com