Syracuse put a fence at the end of Dickerson Street to stop traffic between downtown and the Rescue Mission because of increased problems. Clients of the mission feel like they are caged in. Businesses on the other side of the fence are struggling with trouble spilling over from the people who loiter outside the homeless shelter.
Marnie Eisenstadt
By
Your Letters
To the Editor:
Regarding
“A fence? Or a cage? Syracuse pens off street to contain trouble near homeless shelter”
(June 5, 2025):
Putting a fence on Dickerson Street does not solve the problems of homeless street people. Nor does it solve the problems facing the businesses, mine included, who share the neighborhood with them. Centralizing services in one location creates this issue. Decentralization is the best way to address it.
That fence might temporarily keep some of the folks with behavioral issues away from Salina Street, Clinton Street and Salt City Market, but they will quickly move to Gifford, West Onondaga and Seymour Streets. Fences, policing, other half measures simply relocate the problem.
I am a business owner and community activist on West Onondaga Street.
Addiction, homelessness and mental illness are not just problems in my backyard. They are problems in everyone’s backyard. The facilities that help people dealing with these issues should also be in everyone’s backyard (and smaller in scale).
Many communities offload their problems to a few locations in the city of Syracuse. On the grounds of my business, I have met (and occasionally hired) men and women from every corner of Central New York. Psychosis and heroin addiction can grab hold of anyone, and the descent from successful family member and career person to desperate street person can be shockingly fast.
On Dickerson you will find people who grew up in pricey suburbs, rural villages, all four corners of our city, all the “nice” places you can imagine. Large, centralized facilities become magnets for addicts, the mentally ill, and those who prey on them. They place an undue burden on neighborhoods where they are located. And they can frighten customers and staff members (though I assure you that most of those you will meet on Dickerson are more frightened of you than you are of them).
Salt City Market, the Central Library and other entities have been pioneering and compassionate partners in working with the needy. But we are outnumbered. Every village, every neighborhood, can take care of its vulnerable people if there are enough people capable of helping. It’s time to change the balance. Smaller, decentralized services will serve the vulnerable and their neighbors. Your community can be part of the solution. Please help.
Ed Griffin-Nolan
Syracuse
Visit Syracuse leader: Film industry’s economic benefits to CNY outweigh frustrations (Your Letters)
Vote for my candidate in Cicero GOP primary (Your Letters)
American High shows disregard for Liverpool neighbors like me (Your Letters)
Liverpool mayor: American High has worn out its welcome (Your Letters)
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.