By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — An action plan aimed at eliminating all serious injury and fatal crashes on Syracuse streets prioritizes changes at a small percentage of intersections and roads where a disproportionate number of such incidents have taken place.
Mayor Ben Walsh is seeking Syracuse Common Council approval of the city’s
Vision Zero Action Plan
, which would guide future road and sidewalk improvements with a focus on safety for motorists and pedestrians.
As part of the plans formation, the city’s Vision Zero consultants analyzed several years worth of data on crashes and identified 25 intersections and 25 miles of roadway where 50% of all serious injury or fatal crashes took place between 2019 and 2023. Those intersections make up just 1% of all intersections in the city, while the roadway miles account for just 6%.
Examples of Vision Zero practices that could implemented at the hotspots include improved crosswalk visibility, reductions in the number of street lanes, improved lighting and radar speed warning signs. Improvements would also include some measures the city has already in some areas taken such as speed cushions and dedicated bicycle lanes, along with speed, red light and bus stop arm cameras for automated enforcement in school zones. The plan also calls for an evaluation to consider making 25 mph the city’s default speed limit.
Below is a map showing the 25 dangerous intersections listed in the action plan. All of these sites had three or more fatal or serious injury crashes from 2019 to 2023. Zoom in and click on a marked site to see the specific locations:
After more than two years of studying data and gathering feedback from the community, a final draft of the Vision Zero Action is now before the council. Lawmakers plan to hold a Public Works Committee meeting at 11 a.m. Monday to discuss it. A vote could happen as soon as July 28.
The plan’s goals include having no fatal or serious injury crashes on city streets by 2055, with a 35% reduction by 2035. From 2019 to 2023, there were 563 such crashes in Syracuse, with 42 people dying and 608 seriously injured.
Visit
syr.gov/vision-zero
to learn more about the program and read the
action plan
.
City reporter Jeremy Boyer can be reached at
jboyer@syracuse.com
, (315) 657-5673,
Twitter
or
Facebook
.
Jeremy Boyer
City News Reporter
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.