Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

48°

Independent firm, used by Walsh Administration, finds 26 'red flags' with mayor's budget

by Matthew Benninger, Mary Kielar

Fri, May 9, 2025 at 4:06 PM
Updated Fri, May 9, 2025 at 6:17 PM
00:01
00:00
An independent firm identified 26, of what it called, "red flags" in Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh's Fiscal Year 2026 Budget. (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)
7
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
MAYOR WALSH
BONADIO GROUP
FISCAL YEAR 2026
BUDGET
COMMON COUNCIL
RED FLAGS
COST CUTS

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — An independent firm identified 26, of what it called, "red flags" in Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh's Fiscal Year 2026 Budget.

The Bonadio Group is the same firm the Walsh Administration uses for its annual audit of city finances. Its analysis of the $348 million Fiscal Year 2026 Budget reached its conclusion by utilizing strategies from other cities.

According to the Bonadio Group, Syracuse can reduce its costs by $26 million. However, the Syracuse Common Council is choosing to only cut costs by $16 million by reducing spending across all city departments by 7%.

The move became a point of contention between the Common Council and Mayor Walsh's Administration. The Council voted unanimously on Thursday afternoon to reject the budget. President Pro-Tempore of the Common Council Pat Hogan took issue with a projected $27 million deficit.

PREVIOUS COVERAGE | Syracuse Common Council, Mayor at odds over proposed city budget

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

So, the Common Council hired Bonadio Group to conduct the independent analysis, drawing ire from Walsh. The mayor and city department heads held a news conference Thursday afternoon after the council's vote and publically claimed that the the 7% cuts would reduce department efficiency, eliminate jobs and jeopardize safety.

The sparring between the two governing bodies continued into Friday. Chief Administration Officer Corey Driscoll Dunham called out the Common Council for seeking third-party help with the budget.

“It’s inconceivable that the Common Council, elected to understand city operations, including budgeting, would rely on a report that provides a generic and superficial review of municipal finance. Council leadership drove an analysis that failed to include interviews or consultation with the budget office, finance or anyone in our operating departments, counsel or the administration," said Dunham in a news release. "The rushed, secretive and incomplete process created by Council leadership led to an unnecessary waste of taxpayer funds and explains why the Council erred so gravely in its budget amendments.”

Driscoll Dunham said "He's already made it clear that there will be vetoes coming, so right now we're reviewing the amendments as they were submitted to us late the night before the meeting to determine what next steps we're going to take." She said the public will know more next week or the week after about what vetoes the administration has.

Common Councilor Marty Nave said "We need to keep this city solvent so we don't go bankrupt. ARPA money is long gone. And last year, we knew that it was not gonig to be around anymore. We knew we were going to have to make some hard, hard decisions as a council. And yes, we knew we would be pissed on for it."

READ THE COMMENTS (7)

The Bonadio Group's analysis is below:

Click here to view the PDF file










  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
OCC put on lockdown because of threat; turns out to be paintball gun
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.