By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Another large housing development in downtown Syracuse near the Interstate 81 viaduct is in the city’s pipeline.
City officials are in negotiations with developers looking demolish the city-owned Johnson Vocational Center at 571-581 E. Genesee St. and construct a 138-unit apartment building with commercial space on the ground floor.
The project, situated just west of the viaduct that will come down later this decade as part of the state’s
$2.25 billion Interstate 81 makeover
, would join three other major housing developments planned just to the east that are creating more than 600 apartments.
National mixed-income housing developer
Pennrose
, based in Philadelphia, is working with local developer Luke Esposito on the project. They plan to give the Common Council an overview of their plans in the next few weeks, said Eric Ennis, Syracuse’s deputy commissioner of economic development.
The 50,300-square-foot building, built before World War II, was originally an automobile dealership but was used by the city school district for decades. Last year, the district and the city
issued a call
for redevelopment proposals for the site, saying it was no longer a good fit for the district’s career and technical education programs. The district has moved all those programs to its high schools for the upcoming school year.
Design details for the apartment building are not final, but the building will certainly be several stories high because of the small site footprint between East Genesee and East Fayette streets, Ennis said.
The project developers could not be reached for comment on Wednesday.
City officials sought redevelopment that would include dozens of affordable housing units in a walkable area of downtown, as well as job-creating commercial space, Ennis said. In addition, Pennrose has a strong record in mixed-income development, with dozens of projects around the country.
“This really checked a lot of boxes,” Ennis said.
The terms of the agreement between the city and developers are still being negotiated, Ennis said. As part of that process, the administration is asking the council to approve hiring an appraiser. The city’s assessment department puts the property’s full market value at $4.2 million.
The Johnson Vocational Center building is a block west of the viaduct. On the east side, three additional housing projects are planned — one new build and two conversions of hotels.
At East Fayette and Almond streets, developer Christopher Geiger, of Amityville, is planning a
seven-story mixed-use building
with 283 apartments, mostly priced at market rate but with more than 30 reserved for tenants making no more than 80% of the area’s median income. That’s a requirement for large apartment projects under the city’s zoning law approved in 2023.
A block to the south of Geiger’s site, Charleston, South Carolina-based Buxton Development Group is
converting
the former Crowne Plaza hotel into nearly 300 fully furnished studio apartments. About 30 units will be set aside for lower-income tenants.
Down the street from that site, Jackson, Wyoming-based
Timberwolf Capital Partners
is converting the 82 rooms of the Mayflower Hotel into 52 one- and two-bedroom apartments.
The impending removal of the Interstate 81 viaduct and the population growth prospects of the Micron semiconductor complex are driving significant developer interest in that part of Syracuse, said city Commissioner of Neighborhood and Business Development Michael Collins.
“It’s absolutely not a coincidence,” he said. “Young adults really want to be in the urban core. That’s just part of the national trend that we see. The fact that (developers) are seeing the opportunity from an economic standpoint is really just kind of a natural evolution.”
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com