By
Mark Weiner | mweiner@syracuse.com
Syracuse’s airport is not showing travelers a video of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem blaming Democrats in Congress for the
federal government shutdown
.
In the video, which began airing at TSA airport checkpoints around the country last week, Noem blames Democrats for any travel delays related to the shutdown. The shutdown continued for a 14th day Tuesday.
Officials at almost a dozen airports nationwide, including three in New York, have declined to show the video. Airport officials warn it could violate laws or internal policies banning the use of public resources for political activity.
Syracuse Hancock International Airport officials declined to immediately explain their decision. An unidentified spokesperson sent an email to syracuse.com that said the airport would issue a statement Tuesday afternoon.
Airport director Jason Terreri did not respond to requests for comment. The airport is operated by the Syracuse Regional Airport Authority, a public benefit corporation established under state law.
The video was not playing at TSA checkpoints at the Syracuse airport on Monday or Tuesday.
The single television above the airport security checkpoint was l
ooping through a video r
ecorded earlier this year. In that video, Noem encourages travelers to obtain their REAL ID by the since-passed May 7 deadline.
The other New York airports that have declined to show the video are in Buffalo and in the New York City suburbs of Westchester County, according to
The Washington Post
.
Other airports that have refused to air the video are in Charlotte,
Cleveland
, Los Angeles, Phoenix, Seattle and Portland, Oregon, according to news reports.
Westchester County Executive
Ken Jenkins said in a statement
that the video is “inconsistent with the values we expect from our nation’s top public officials” and “unnecessarily alarmist.”
In the video, Noem, a Republican, said that “Democrats in Congress refuse to fund the federal government, and because of this, many of our operations are impacted. We will continue to do all that we can to avoid delays that will impact your travel. And our hope is that Democrats will soon recognize the importance of opening the government.”
Some airport officials said the video could violate the Hatch Act, which prohibits federal employees from engaging in politics while on the job.
The TSA did not respond to syracuse.com Tuesday when asked about the video.
TSA employees who operate airport security checkpoints have remained on the job without pay since the shutdown began Oct. 1. Those workers are due to miss their first full paycheck Oct. 24 if there is no agreement by members of Congress to pass a short-term budget before that date.
A TSA union official in Syracuse said employees have remained on the job over the past two weeks, without any mass sickouts.
U.S. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said there have been
some delays at airports caused by absences
among the 13,000 air traffic controllers and about 50,000 TSA workers who have been asked to remain on the job without pay.
RECOMMENDED
Oswego County plans to open 30,000 acres for development of housing, businesses near Micron
Mar. 19, 2026, 10:54 p.m.
School closings in Central NY: Delays for a second day this week (Wednesday March 18)
Mar. 18, 2026, 9:18 p.m.
The last government shutdown in the winter of 2018-2019 ended after 35 days when sickouts by TSA screeners and air traffic controllers caused widespread delays at airports across the nation.
Federal employees typically are paid retroactively at the end of a government shutdown. In 2019, some hourly and lower-wage employees called in sick because they had to find other jobs to pay their bills during the shutdown.
Reporter Jon Moss contributed to this report
.
Mark Weiner
Mark Weiner is the Washington correspondent for Syracuse.com and The Post-Standard. He has four decades of experience reporting on issues important to Central New York. You can reach him at 571-970-3751.
mweiner@syracuse.com