By
Claire Harrison | Contributing Writer
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Along with a hotly contested
mayoral race
, there likely will be two other Democratic primaries this year in Syracuse.
Candidates filed political party
nominating petitions
last week in races for Syracuse Common Council and the Syracuse City School District. City voters this year will decide on all five council district seats, two councilor-at-large seats, council president post and three education commissioners.
If the petitions filed last week survive any objections to their validity, there will be Democratic primaries for councilor-at-large and education commissioner. Based on filings by Republican and Working Families Party candidates, there should also be contested races in the fall for those seats along with one of the district council races.
Candidates can also pursue independent ballot lines. Petition circulating for independent candidates starts April 15 and runs through late May.
The primary election will take place on Tuesday, June 24, with early voting Tuesday, June 22, through Sunday, June 22. The general election will be on Tuesday, Nov. 4.
Syracuse Common Council
The council is made up of a president and nine voting councilors. The president and four at-large members are elected as city-wide representatives, serving four-year terms. The other five members represent different
areas
of the city and hold office for two years.
Serving as the legislative arm of the city government, the Common Council passes local laws and ordinances. Councilors are also responsible for adopting the city’s annual budget. The position of council president, which only votes to break ties, is currently paid $39,140, while the nine voting councilors’ pay is at $36,050.
Council president:
Incumbent Helen Hudson has reached a term limit after two four-year terms at the helm. Current Councilor-at-Large Rita Paniagua, a Democrat is the only candidate
running
for the seat. Paniagua’s at-large term isn’t up until 2027. If she’s elected president, the council would appoint someone to fill the vacancy until the end of 2026, with a special election in fall 2026 to determine who would serve the post until the term is over in 2027.
Councilor-at-large (2 seats available):
Democratic incumbents Rasheada Caldwell and Amir Gethers have filed petitions to run for re-election. They face two primary challengers. Hanah Enrenreich and Hasahn Bloodworth both filed Democratic petitions for the seats. Ehrenreich also filed petitions for the Working Families Party ballot line, securing herself a spot on the fall ballot. No Republican candidates filed for the at-large race.
District 1:
Democratic incumbent Marty Nave is running for reelection to a second term in District 1 and there are no primary or Republican challengers.
District 2:
Because three-term Democratic incumbent Pat Hogan is running for mayor, District 2 will have a new councilor. Democrat Donna Moore, who is also endorsed by the Working Families Party, is the only candidate who filed Democratic petitions. No Republicans filed for that seat.
District 3:
Corey Williams, another Democratic incumbent, will run for a second term for District 3 without any challengers from either party.
District 4
: First-time Democratic Councilor Patrona Jones-Rowser will run again to represent District 4, with a challenge in the fall. Martin Cass filed Republican petitions for that seat.
District 5:
Democrat Jimmy Monto is also seeking reelection in District 5. He’s held the position since he was appointed to fill a vacancy in 2022. Monto also has the Working Families Party ballot line.
Syracuse school board
Three positions are on the ballot for the seven-person board. The winners will begin their four-year terms at the beginning of next year. Education commissioners receive an annual salary of $16,000.
Four Democratic candidates have filed petitions to run in that party’s primary. Incumbents Nyatwa Bullock, Karen Cordano and Twiggy Billue all seek re-election, along with Michael Root. The Onondaga Democratic Committee endorsed Bullock, Cordano and Root.
Billue and Cordano have also secured a fall ballot line by filing petitions for the Working Families Party line.
In addition, one Republican, Jason Petrone, has filed petitions to run for school board.
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.