By
Darian Stevenson | DStevenson@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — Syracuse police attempted to pull over a stolen car spotted at the Destiny USA mall, but when it fled, the officers didn’t pursue it.
Just moments later, an Onondaga County Sheriff’s Office deputy spotted the same car and chased it a short distance before it crashed into another vehicle on Park Street.
Syracuse police have adopted a policy of not chasing stolen cars.
The sheriff’s office, however, is sticking with its policy of chasing stolen cars like the one the deputy spotted near the mall
in November.
A growing number of police departments in the United States are changing their pursuit policies to stop or reduce the number of times officers chase stolen vehicles
.
The biggest reason is safety, not only just for officers, but for bystanders and those evading police. Some cities also have been sued after police chases hurt or killed innocent bystanders.
“One person is going to die today because of a pursuit in the United States,”
said
Geoffrey P. Alpert
, a professor of criminology at the University of South Carolina who has studied police pursuit policies.
Alpert said many departments are moving to a policy of only chasing people involved in violent crimes. That wouldn’t include any property offense, such as stealing a car.
“It’s a piece of property,” Alpert said. “I certainly don’t want the police to put my family, your family or anyone’s family, at high risk for a piece of property.”
In Buffalo, officers now are not only told to not chase stolen cars, but
to stop and drive the other way so that drivers don’t think they are being pursued.
In Chicago, and many other agencies, a motor vehicle pursuit is prohibited if it’s a traffic offense or theft, including possession of stolen vehicle.
Those police departments say the change is out of a concern for safety amongst drivers, pedestrians and their officers.
A recent database of fatal pursuits built by reporters from the San Francisco Chronicle, from 2017 through 2022, found that police pursuits resulted in the death of more than 3,000 people.
More than 500 of those fatalities were bystanders and the vast majority of police vehicle pursuits were to stop drivers suspected of committing minor vehicle and traffic violations or lower-level crimes, according to the
San Francisco Chronicle.
Pursuits in Central New York are sometimes deadly.
In October 2022,
Sean Girvin
, 16, of Syracuse was killed after the stolen vehicle he was driving crashed on East Seneca Turnpike in Syracuse. He was being pursued by deputies.
In December 2023, a 15-year-old boy was in a stolen Kia when Syracuse police spotted it in the area of South Salina and West Onondaga streets. A short pursuit ensued and Zy’Mier Zulueta died when he drove the vehicle into a wall near Fowler High School.
Syracuse chief: Pursuits dangerous, ineffective
The Syracuse department’s current pursuit policy, updated in August, states a stolen vehicle — in and of itself — is not sufficient justification for initiating a pursuit. However, a stolen car can be pursued if there are other aggravating circumstances.
A pursuit can be initiated if an officer believes that the stolen vehicle was used in, or was involved in, a separate felony or violent misdemeanor, according to the policy.
“There has to be other things involved,” Syracuse Police Chief Joseph Cecile said. “Was it just taken into a burglary, robbery, a shots fired incident?”
In addition to safety concerns, Cecile said chasing vehicles also hasn’t decreased the number of vehicles stolen in the city.
“Are we solving the stolen vehicle epidemic?” Cecile said. “Thousands of vehicles were stolen, so the answer was no, we weren’t having much impact whatsoever by chasing.”
In 2024, 1,268 vehicles were stolen within the city, up 12 percent from 2023. The s
tealing of Kia and Hyundai vehicles
contributed to much of the rise.
Car thefts in Syracuse have increased 86 percent since 2019.
Most pursuits not for serious crimes
The Police Executive Research Forum, a research and policy organization, said it is a myth that people flee police only when they have committed a serious crime.
Research shows more than 90 percent of pursuits are initiated because of
traffic violations
, the group said.
In California, for example, the majority of reasons for pursuits involved speeding, stolen vehicles, registration or license plate violations, failure to obey traffic control devices at an intersection, and reckless driving, according to The California Highway Patrol’s report on 2022 police pursuits.
The top charges upon apprehension were for stolen vehicle, driving under the influence, larceny, resisting arrest and suspended or unlicensed driver, the report said. Combined, these accounted for 39 percent of all apprehensions and 20 percent of all pursuits, it said.
The highest charges — assault with a deadly weapon and felon in possession of a firearm — accounted for less than 7 percent of apprehensions and less than 4 percent of pursuits, the report said.
County not changing its policy
Sheriff Toby Shelley has said his office will continue to chase stolen vehicles. And where Syracuse police won’t pursue, a sheriff’s deputy will.
“Our credibility with the public and with offenders would be greatly diminished if we didn’t pursue vehicles, because the public expects us to enforce the laws,” said Lt. Crayg Dykes, a police captain at the sheriff’s office. “If you’re a victim of a crime, and our response is, we were not going to use pursuit to apprehend, our credibility is damaged.”
In 2024, the county initiated 35 vehicle pursuits and assisted in 18, according to Tom Newton, a spokesperson for the Sheriff’s Office. Eleven of the initiated pursuits involved stolen vehicles.
Shelley said most of their pursuits are within the city and involve city cases.
The office’s policy says a pursuit can be initiated if officers believe that an offense has just occurred, is occurring or is about to be committed. If a suspect exhibits the intention to avoid apprehension by refusing to stop when directed to do so also justifies a pursuit, according to the policy.
A pursuit also may be justified if the deputy reasonably believes that a suspect, if allowed to flee, would present a danger to human life or cause serious injury.
“Every situation is different and the ends don’t justify the means,” Dykes said. “You know, we’re not gonna chase a person at 100 miles an hour who stole a tool set from Walmart.”
Dykes also said the department’s policy is restrictive and that the majority of the responsibility falls on the supervisor who will call off pursuits.
Deputies have to consider road and weather conditions, population, vehicle and pedestrian traffic, how the fleeing vehicle is driving, how serious the offense is and the presence of other people in the police and suspect vehicles,
according to the policy.
“The important key, is adequate supervision,” Dykes said. “So even with those restrictions that we place on the deputies, our supervisors are charged with monitoring the pursuit to make sure that the deputies decisions are in line with sheriff’s mission.”
Some sheriff pursuits end in crashes
On Jan. 13, three people were taken to the hospital after deputies joining a traffic pursuit collided with another car in downtown Syracuse.
Two sheriff’s deputies inside the cruiser crashed into a car at Harrison and South State streets near the OnCenter. They were on their way to join a traffic pursuit that had started about 10 minutes earlier.
Deputies said the officers’ lights and sirens were activated.
A patrol car from the Onondaga County Sheriff's Office collided with a car at Harrison and South State streets near the OnCenter in downtown Syracuse on Monday, Jan. 13, 2025.
Sharon Dellinger | sdellinger@syracuse.com
Three teen boys
were later arrested after stealing the car and leading deputies on a pursuit across much of Syracuse’s North Side.
Syracuse police did not join the pursuit, according to Kieran Coffey, a spokesperson for the police.
The incident led to the
handcuffing of an 11-year-old girl
who deputies said fit the description of a person involved with stealing the car. They later determined the girl wasn’t the person involved.
On Nov. 1, Syracuse officers found a stolen Ford Escape when a Flock Safety Camera — a license plate reading camera — spotted the SUV at Destiny USA.
Officers tried to stop the SUV, but the vehicle immediately fled. The city officers did not pursue it, according to Coffey.
A county deputy patrolling in the area saw the SUV and
began pursuing the car
, according to Coffey.
The stolen car went a short distance before it crashed into another car on Park Street at Harborside Drive, Coffey said. The crash flipped the stolen vehicle on its side. Police said the two occupants in the car sustained minor injuries from the crash and were later arrested.
In 2023,
deputies chased a stolen
BMW SUV after 6 girls loaded shopping carts with merchandise and fled the Kohl’s at 3827 State Route 31 in Clay.
While on patrol, a deputy spotted the car on Interstate 481 South near the Interstate 81 South interchange and tried to stop the SUV but it kept going. Deputies pursued until the vehicle crashed into another car. Five of the six girls were arrested.
Some change chase policies, some don’t
Buffalo police officers are prohibited from chasing stolen cars, according to Police Commissioner Joseph A. Gramaglia. Pursuits are banned where the reason for the attempted stop is a vehicle and traffic law violation, a misdemeanor, or a non-violent felony.
The agency’s pursuit policy also requires its officers to pull over, rather than pursue stolen vehicles, Gramaglia said.
Officers are told to either turn at the next intersection, or if the road is a straightaway, and there’s no intersection, to pull over and safely make a U-turn and drive in the other direction.
“The idea is not to make motorists feel that they’re still being pursued and pressed a