By
Advance Media NY Editorial Board
A site two blocks from the Syracuse Inner Harbor — and the $100 million aquarium being built there — is the wrong place to put a
concrete batch plant
that would generate noise, dust and truck traffic 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
The plant, at 411 and 421 Spencer St., is incompatible with plans to make the lakefront a center of tourism and recreation anchored by the aquarium.
The area is already home to a
hotel
,
apartments
and a
taproom
. There is lots of room to build more housing, restaurants, office space and retail — which has been
the plan
since the city acquired the harbor from New York state in 2011.
The lakefront neighborhood also has changed significantly in the decade or so the concrete plant has been dormant.
“Oil City” is no longer dotted with oil storage tanks and vacant, polluted buildings. Within blocks of the proposed concrete plant are a popular restaurant, apartments and office buildings. Developer
Len Montreal
has poured millions of his own money into rehabbing small commercial buildings around that part of the West Side.
Widening out from the Inner Harbor, the area around Onondaga Lake has been transformed by the lake cleanup, completion of the Creekwalk, construction of the Loop the Lake trail and the success of the Empower FCU Amphitheater at Lakeview.
Heidelberg Materials needs a special permit from the city to restart the concrete plant. It would demolish one plant that is too far gone to repair and fix up a second one on the site, plus install equipment to control dust.
Despite objections from neighbors and from Onondaga County Executive Ryan McMahon, the company insists it wants to go ahead. It cites the plant’s proximity to Interstate 690 and the demand for concrete for the Interstate 81 project.
McMahon has offered to help Heidelberg find a more suitable site. Sounds like a great idea to us.
City planners advised the planning board to disapprove of the project. The company pulled its application from Monday’s agenda for the second time, avoiding a negative recommendation from the planning board, for now.
Whatever your feelings about the aquarium, Onondaga County is sinking $85 million of public money into it. The Common Council, which has the final say on special permits, should protect that investment, as well as the city’s interests in seeing its only sliver of waterfront developed to its full potential.
Heidelberg should see the handwriting on the wall. A concrete plant simply doesn’t fit in with the current and future plans for the Inner Harbor and Syracuse lakefront.
About Syracuse.com editorials
Editorials represent the collective opinion of the Advance Media New York editorial board. Our opinions are independent of news coverage. Read our
mission statement.
Members of the editorial board are Tim Kennedy, Trish LaMonte and Marie Morelli.
To respond to this editorial: Submit a letter or commentary to
letters@syracuse.com
. Read our
submission guidelines.
If you have questions about the Opinions & Editorials section, contact Marie Morelli, editorial/opinion lead, at
mmorelli@syracuse.com
Editorial Board
Advance Media New York's Editorial Board offers our institutional opinion on matters of community interest. Editorials are separate from news. Editorial board members: Tim Kennedy, president; Trish LaMonte,...
more
mmorelli@syracuse.com