By
Renee Fox | rfox@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. -- A new Syracuse Common Council will decide next year if a company should be allowed to build a large-scale battery storage facility in a South Side neighborhood.
Members of the council decided Monday during a study session to hold the issue until next year, on the legal advice of Joe Barry, the city’s first assistant corporation counsel.
Barry said his office will research and then provide the council with legal options in the new year.
Troy-based New Leaf Energy argued earlier this month before the Common Council’s Economic Development Committee that the city should grant it a special-use permit. That would allow the company to build the battery energy storage systems at 426 E. Brighton Ave.
The systems charge up at night using power from the grid when demand for electricity is lowest. Then, the company gets paid to feed that power back to the grid during the daytime, when demand is highest. The batteries would store enough electricity to serve 6,000 to 7,000 households.
But some residents, the city’s fire chief and a common councilor have expressed concerns, especially about potential fires.
At a meeting earlier in December, fire Chief Michael Monds said the plans do not meet his standards for fire safety.
The project’s senior project developer, Terrence Nolan, said a fire is highly unlikely.
But if there is a fire, it’s left to burn itself out. The batteries are stored inside a metal box. Water is used to stop the fire from spreading, but the water can’t reach the flames inside the box.
That means firefighters would have to monitor the fire and make sure it doesn’t spread to other structures.
A battery storage site in Warwick in Orange County caught fire Friday, according to the
Albany Times Union
. The paper reports the fire at the Convergent battery storage site has burned for at least three days and that Warwick Village Mayor Michael Newhard said the fire was caused by water in the storage system.
Monds said the design for the 20,000-square-foot system situate it too closely to the neighboring structures around it.
A sign at 426 E. Brighton Ave. describes a proposed battery storage facility at the site.
syracuse.com
Councilor Pat Hogan proposed in a study session last week that the city create a moratorium on issuing permits for this type of project. He said the New Leaf proposal isn’t the only one that’s come up in the city.
He said a moratorium would give Monds time to “establish some sort of procedure that we can follow” with these types of projects. Hogan also proposed holding a public hearing before making a decision on the permit.
Councilor Corey Williams said he was opposed to a moratorium.
Williams will still be on the council next year, but Hogan won’t be.
“I think we can handle it procedurally within the council and within our current operations,” Williams said.
Williams said with that strategy, the councilors can reject bad plans and accept good ones, as more proposals are expected to roll in.
New York officials authorized a new round of financial incentives to encourage the development of the battery systems. The incentives aim to increase the reliability of the electric grid as demand for energy in New York ramps up with the growth of data centers and advanced manufacturing.
The lithium-ion battery facilities are billed as environmentally friendly because they could reduce the need to generate energy with natural gas and oil to meet peak demand.
Little time left to comment on $3 million plan to improve how shoppers walk to Regional Market
Syracuse company is on the cusp of breakthrough that could help thousands avoid painful infections
This donut shop is finally toast: It’s nearly time to raze the Dunkin’ next to I-81 in Syracuse
Renee Fox
Renee Fox is an investigative reporter covering consumer issues, businesses, utilities and public money for syracuse.com | The Post-Standard. 
Before arriving at Advance Media New York in 2025, Renee spent...
more
rfox@syracuse.com