Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

37°

Mayor issues 45 vetoes to Common Council's amendments on Syracuse city budget

by Mary Kielar

Mon, May 19, 2025 at 4:03 PM
Updated Mon, May 19, 2025 at 5:41 PM
00:01
00:00
Syracuse City Hall. (Photo by CNY Central)

7
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
MAYOR WALSH
COMMON COUNCIL
BUDGET
VETOES
SPENDING CUTS
PROPERTY TAX
PUBLIC SAFETY

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — As promised, Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh issued vetoes on 45 of the 82 amendments made by the Common Council to his original proposed city budget Monday. He had 10 days to go through each one and work with city lawyers.

His original budget called for a 2% property tax hike and for taking $27 million out of the city's fund balance. Over his eight years in office, the budget has increased by $102 million.

This latest budget drew criticism from the council, which decided to cut $16 million from the mayor's proposed budget be reducing spending by 7% across the all departments. The council went to an outside firm to get an analysis of the mayor's proposed $348 million spending plan, which led to their decision to make 80 amendments. The Bonadio Group said Syracuse can reduce its costs by $26 million.

City Hall called the decision by the council to seek an outside analysis a "rushed, secretive, and incomplete process." Walsh said the Common Council's was harmful to city services and public safety.

Specifically, Walsh vetoed the Common Council cuts to the police and fire departments, code enforcement and permit reviews, as well as a 50% cut in Law Department funding for outside legal counsel. He also objected to most of the amendments that cut spending in the city's Department of Public Works and Parks Departments.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

He also objected to the Common Council cutting his proposed 2% increase to water rates.

“Respectfully, I do not support the Council’s amendments and significant reductions to the proposed budget,” Walsh said in a letter addressed to the Common Council. “In the interest of compromise, however, I am only objecting to 45 amendments which I believe to be most harmful to our constituents and employees. I urge the Council to reconsider and not make those reductions.”

Below is the letter Mayor Walsh sent to the City Council that details the 45 amendments he opposed:

Click here to view the PDF file

37 amendments made by the Common Council were not rejected for a total of $3.4 million. Walsh, who said he'd meet the Common Council, said his objections to the 45 amendments allow for the council to maintain the tax rate and lower spending without cutting city jobs.

Last Wednesday, Council President Pro Tempore Pat Hogan, Councilor Corey Williams, the city's Finance Commissioner Michael Cannizzaro and Mayor Walsh met to talk about the budget. Hogan has maintained that the Common Council's cuts were fair.

PREVIOUS COVERAGE | In Syracuse budget battle, council leader pledges to override all mayoral vetoes

At least six votes are needed for the council to override a veto from the mayor, and once that happens, there's no legal recourse for the mayor to fight them.

CNY Central reached out to the Syracuse City Council for comment.

READ THE COMMENTS (7)

Posted below are the potential impacts of budget cuts, according to city department heads, provided by the Office of Mayor Walsh:

Click here to view the PDF file







  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
How To Drain Lymph Flui ds In Ankles And Legs? It's Simple
Limpansa
|
SPONSORED
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Best Ways to Drain Lymph Fluid in Ankles & Legs
Limpansa
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
REPORT: Gerry McNamar a is set to become the next head coach of Syrac use Men's Basketball
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.