By
Anne Hayes | ahayes@syracuse.com
Jon Moss | jmoss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — A federal jury in a lawsuit over a 2016 fatal shooting by a police officer came back Friday with a mixed verdict that appears to be a victory for the city.
The jury ruled that the Syracuse officer used excessive force, but awarded the family of the man killed only $10,000. The city at one point was willing to settle for more than $800,000.
The finding that excessive force was used likely won’t stand, a federal judge said from the bench. The officer appears to be covered by qualified immunity, the judge said.
Qualified immunity is a legal principle that protects government officials, particularly police officers, from being held responsible in lawsuits for depriving a person of their constitutional rights.
The officer, Kelsey Francemone, fired multiple times at Gary Porter, 41, after several people started shooting at a Father’s Day barbecue on June 19, 2016. Porter died.
Francemone said Porter had turned toward her with a gun. No gun was ever found, but police maintain people in the crowd took it.
The shooting
provoked
a strong community response and led to protests in front of police headquarters.
Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick at the time
praised
Francemone’s actions of running toward the gunfire as “one of the bravest things” he had ever seen. A grand jury convened by his office cleared Francemone of any criminal wrongdoing.
Francemone was
named
New York State Police Officer of the Year in 2017 and was presented the honor by then-Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul.
Porter’s family
filed the civil lawsuit
in federal court.
The eight jurors — five white women, two white men and a Black woman — took less than two days to deliberate about vastly different accounts of what happened that summer night.
Syracuse Police Officer Kelsey Francemone exits a courtroom at the courthouse on the North State Street Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. Michael Greenlar | mgreenlar@syracuse.com
SYR
Francemone was initially disappointed by the verdict, according to Mary D’Agostino, one of her attorneys.
D’Agostino said the fact Porter was shot in the back was likely the main factor in the jury’s verdict.
Fred Lichtmacher, the attorney for Porter’s family, said Porter’s daughter was devastated despite the initial victory. He said she was crushed that a Black man’s life was valued at just $10,000.
The attorneys defending Francemone asked that the jury answer three additional factual questions to see if qualified immunity applied to the case.
The jury was asked:
Did Francemone prove that Porter had a gun at some point that night? Yes, the jury said.
Did Francemone prove that she had a reasonable, even if mistaken, belief that Porter was one of several people firing a gun that night? Yes.
Did Francemone prove that she had a reasonable, even if mistaken, belief that Porter had a gun on him before she fired her final shots at him? Yes.
After the answers were read, Francemone and D’Agostino embraced, knowing the answers would likely trigger qualified immunity and force the verdict to be overturned.
Under the law, police officers cannot be held liable in civil cases unless similar actions had already been found unconstitutional in a previous court case.
According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, shooting an armed person is not unconstitutional if they pose a threat of death or serious harm to the officer or others.
Chief U.S. District Judge Brenda Sannes said in court it appeared the verdict will be overturned. She asked the lawyers for both sides to submit briefs before she rules.
Lichtmacher said the jury’s verdict that Francemone used excessive force, while also finding that Porter was armed, appeared “inconsistent.” He said he could not say what the jury was thinking.
Lichtmacher said he believes the jury was not aware of the significance of the additional fact-finding questions and that answering “yes” could overturn the verdict.
“I think the jury walked out thinking that my client had won,” Lichtmacher said. “The jury has given ammunition to the judge if she cares to find qualified immunity.”
Lichtmacher said if the judge finds qualified immunity applies, he could file an appeal.
He said he believes there is no credible evidence Porter had a gun that night.
The weeks-long trial almost didn’t happen.
City lawyers
had reached
an agreement to pay $825,000 to settle the lawsuit. But a vote by the Common Council
was one short
of the two-thirds majority needed to borrow to pay for the settlement.
The events of that night are in some ways from a different era of policing and police accountability.
Video footage capturing some of what happened is from grainy surveillance cameras and the phones of some people who happened to be nearby. Syracuse police officers did not begin to get body cameras
until the following year
.
The state Attorney General’s Office quickly closed its investigation,
saying at the time
that it didn’t have the authority to continue looking into what happened. The state Legislature would later pass a law requiring the office to investigate any death that may have been caused by an action, or lack of an action, by law enforcement officers.
It is not in dispute how the night began.
A large Father’s Day celebration was happening at the James Geddes public housing complex on the city’s Near West Side. Hundreds of people were there, and music blared from a DJ booth.
About an hour into her shift, and less than two years into her career on the force, Francemone responded at around 11:10 p.m. to a call for a “person down.” That call was determined to be unfounded.
Soon after arriving, however, Francemone heard gunfire. Officials would later say at least 37 shots were fired.
People at the barbecue began stampeding away from the shots, creating a chaotic scene. Francemone, who was by herself, ran toward the gunfire.
She would find three people shooting from near a car in a small parking lot off Tully Street on the southern side of the housing complex.
Sannes, the judge, acknowledged to the jurors that they faced “very different pictures” of what happened next.
Francemone
t
ook to the witness stand
before a courtroom packed with police officers. She testified that she had repeatedly identified herself as a police officer and ordered the shooters to drop their guns.
After firing a few times at the shooters, Francemone’s gun jammed. She crouched low to the ground while swapping out her magazine.
Francemone then fired twice at a man she said she saw pointing a gun at her as he ran.
People attending the barbecue pounced twice on Francemone after she shot Porter, stealing items from her uniform and striking her with a glass bottle.
Witnesses for the plaintiff — Porter’s daughter, Tanajee Maddox — disputed much of her account.
Two witnesses who had supported Francemone before a grand jury have since changed their tune.
One witness, Khalil Davis, refused to be transported from a downstate prison to testify in Francemone’s defense at the civil trial. He is serving a 10-year sentence on drug and gun charges.
Lawyers for Francemone instead read part of what Davis had testified to the grand jury. Davis said Porter had a gun and thought Francemone was doing what she had to do to protect herself.
Lichtmacher also read some testimony. Davis said in a deposition years later that he was “tricked” into answering questions and apologized to Porter’s family for his statements.
Another witness, Carlos Stackhouse, also is doing time in state prison. Stackhouse said he now believes he never saw Porter with a gun. He said he saw Porter throw something small but didn’t know what it was.
Stackhouse, who was 12 at the time of the shooting, said he lied to police and the grand jury. He said his parents told him to help the police, which influenced his story.
The forensic evidence in the case left room for interpretation.
Lawyers for Francemone noted that Porter, who was right-handed, was found with so-called gunshot residue on his right hand. The tiny particles are created after a person fires a gun.
Lichtmacher argued the residue did not necessarily prove Porter had been shooting. He said the residue could have been “transferred” from Francemone’s hand to Porter’s when she later attempted to handcuff him.
Francemone’s lawyers had also sought to tell the jury about Porter’s two previous firearms convictions, arguing that they showed he knew how to access firearms. The judge rejected that argument and said discussing the convictions would be unfairly prejudicial.
Watch