By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — The opening of a warming and cooling center for homeless people in Syracuse has been stalled after
objections from neighbors
.
City of Syracuse and Onondaga County officials said they have paused the pursuit of a
daytime drop-in site
for homeless people who congregate just south of downtown, particularly along
Dickerson Street
, which runs through the Rescue Mission campus.
Business owners, workers and residents on West Onondaga Street heard this week that the county was on the cusp of opening a site on their street, a main corridor into downtown that is two blocks from Dickerson. They wrote to county and city officials and launched an online petition that had about 70 signatures as of Friday morning.
“We are proud to be neighbors to many service providers that support those in need, including shelters, transitional housing, treatment centers, and supportive services,” the petition states. “However, we are deeply concerned that adding another high-impact facility concentrated in this area will disrupt the hard-earned progress we’ve made and further imbalance the social and economic ecosystem of our neighborhood.”
Within hours of the petition going live, city officials asked the county to pause the project, said Justin Sayles, spokesman for county Executive Ryan McMahon.
Sayles said the county, with input from the city and downtown stakeholders, was indeed looking at sites on the West Onondaga Street corridor because it’s near the specific population in need.
“The public should not be thinking in any way, shape or form that this was us driving the train and forcing something down people’s throat,” Sayles said. “But we certainly were a willing partner because we believe that this is a segment of the population that needs services.”
Deputy County Executive Ann Rooney told syracuse.com in June that the center, funded with opioid lawsuit settlement money, would serve between 30 and 50 people. Services would include mental health support, drug treatment, showers and food. They hoped to have it open by August.
While there is no new timetable, city officials still recognize that there’s an acute problem to address, said Michael Collins, Syracuse’s neighborhood and business development commissioner.
“Our big thing ... is that the community needs to be involved in the conversation,” Collins said. “You’ve got the neighbors on the West Onondaga Street corridor raising legitimate concerns about what the impact of a warming center on that part of downtown would be. And the reality is we’ve seen before that when neighbors are fully engaged, we end up with better outcomes.”
Both Collins and the petition referenced the Catholic Charities men’s shelter on Erie Boulevard East, which originally was proposed near the more residential Park Avenue neighborhood.
“The Erie Boulevard site’s a much better site,” Collins said.
Sayles said the city should drive those conversations.
“As of right now, we were told to basically stand down, and that’s what we’ll do” Sayles said. “If they want to come back to the table with the buy-in of the people who are complaining right now and come to the table, we’ll certainly sit right back at the table as good partners.”
Collins acknowledged that shifting a daytime drop-in center to a site miles away is not going to address the issues at Dickerson Street, which have spilled into downtown. Earlier this year, Syracuse
fenced off the street
before it connects to downtown in an effort to prevent problems from spreading to downtown and also to keep away drug dealers who prey upon homeless.
West Onondaga Street merchants understand the challenge, but they say a drop-in center on their street will just move the problem instead of solving it, said Kim Vinciguerra, owner of Upstate Printing and who started the petition.
“I don’t think it’s going to be better,” she said. “I think it’s going to be the same, just in a different spot.”
Vinciguerra and others noted that the West Onondaga Street corridor between downtown and South Avenue is growing. A big contributor has been investments by the state and the county.
The state’s Downtown Revitalization Initiative has committed $5.9 million for economic development on that stretch of the street, while a county program has targeted almost $1.1 million.
“Really what has happened here in the last 10 years is fantastic, but we can’t go backwards,” she said.
New venue will let you play 18 holes of golf in downtown Syracuse later this year
See Syracuse’s 25 most dangerous intersections (and how the city plans to make them safer)
Syracuse police chief hopes union leader ‘cools off’ after ‘dangerous’ online comments
Crews will start removing dozens of trees this month at historic Syracuse park
More trucks are hitting a low Syracuse bridge. Can the city make it safer?
If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation.
By using this site, you consent to our
User Agreement
and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our
Privacy Policy.