By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — The public will have a chance to review and provide comments on street design changes and a proposed linear park aimed at improving connectivity between areas of the city now divided by the Interstate 81 viaduct.
Two open houses will take place this week for discussions about the Reconnecting Communities project, which the city said "aims to enhance safety and accessibility for walking, biking and public transit" along five streets that run perpendicular to the viaduct that’s being removed.
A $500,000 federal grant has paid for a design consultant, Canada-based Stantec Consulting Services Inc., to assess connectivity issues and come up with potential solutions.
The city is seeking feedback on proposed changes to five South Side corridors: Colvin Street, Taylor Street, Dr. Martin Luther King, Adams Street and Harrison streets. In addition, there are plans for a proposed linear park connecting Roesler and Wilson parks.
The open houses take place from 4 to 7 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday. They will be held at the following locations:
Wednesday, Nov. 12: Beauchamp Branch Library, 2111 S. Salina St. (upstairs event space). Refreshments provided by SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry.
Thursday, Nov. 13: Pioneer Homes Coffee House, 1001 S. McBride St. (main event space). Refreshments provided by the Syracuse Housing Authority.
The city’s I-81 project director, Joe Driscoll, said community input is a vital part of the process.
RECOMMENDED
Micron sales, profits soar to new heights (Good Morning CNY for March 19)
Mar. 19, 2026, 6:17 a.m.
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
Mar. 18, 2026, 6:40 p.m.
“We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to reshape how people move through and experience our city. That is why community input at this stage is not just valuable; it is essential,” he said in a news release. “It will help us design safer, more connected streets and create new opportunities for residents in every corner of Syracuse.”
Visit syr.gov/Reconnecting-Communities to learn more about the Reconnecting Communities project.
The city of Syracuse's Reconnecting Communities project targets streetscape improvements on five east-west road that intersection with the current Interstate 81 viaduct. (Provided by City of Syracuse)
Provided by City of Syracuse
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com