By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Executives from the company that owns the former Skyline Apartments said they spoke with Syracuse officials Thursday and believe they can quickly resolve problems that led the city to
seek a court-appointed receiver
for the troubled property.
But Michael Collins, the city’s commissioner of neighborhood and business development, said city officials are not planning to call off the lawsuit they filed Wednesday against Clear Investment Group.
Keep Watching
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
“Nope,” Collins said.
Collins said city officials spoke with Chicago-based Clear representatives Thursday to reiterate what needs to be done before electric power can be restored to the vacant building. But they are not backing off their request that a judge appoint a receiver and force Clear to provide $2 million for repairs.
Court documents and interviews reveal how the relationship between the city and the developer who officials once embraced as the Skyline savior has deteriorated. They’re fighting over electricity, the scope of the repairs and even the value of the building.
Clear officials said they are eager to work with the city to bring the vacant 12-story apartment complex back to life. Clear bought the property for $13 million two years ago from Tim and Troy Green, who let it deteriorate to the point that city officials sought a court-appointed receiver. Clear was that receiver.
“We’re sitting here spending millions of dollars to open this building,” said Amy Rubenstein, Clear’s CEO. “All we want to do is finish this project and get it open. It’s not like you’re dealing with a distressed owner who doesn’t have, you know, the means to get it finished. We’re trying to open it.”
Syracuse officials had hoped that Clear Investment Group would quickly renovate the former Skyline, a sprawling 352-unit complex that suffered years of neglect under the Greens. Clear took over in the spring of 2023, promising $4.6 million in renovations and renaming the complex The Metropolitan.
But the property has languished. It remains vacant in the midst of a housing crisis.
Company officials notified the city in October that they had renovated apartments on two floors of the 12-story building and were ready to start renting. But the city’s code enforcement director, Ryan Shiel, said the company must first provide proof that the fire alarms, sprinkler system, boilers and elevators had all been repaired and inspected, according to emails submitted with the city’s lawsuit.
In the lawsuit filed this week, Shiel said Clear had not made much progress with renovations.
“In my opinion no work has been completed on the premises,” Shiel wrote in an affidavit.
Rubenstein said Clear suffered a setback earlier this year when a thief stole copper pipes from the building and caused a water leak. No sooner had they cleaned up from that leak than a second leak occurred in a standpipe – part of the water system for fighting fires – that caused massive damage.
That leak in the unheated building went undetected for days – city officials say it may have been weeks – causing widespread damage.
Rubenstein said the “best-case scenario” would be that the company could repair damage from the flood and be ready to rent apartments two months from now. The company is waiting for the city to allow electricity to be restored to undertake the work.
But communications with the city have been strained for weeks.
Clear officials have been in daily communication with the city since the flood, Rubenstein said. But much of that communication looked like this, according to email record submitted to the court:
“We have been asking for a call,” wrote Lindsay Rodriguez, a Clear official. “Please let’s get on a call. I can send it out. What time works best?”
Collins responded: “Lindsay, Ryan (Shiel) has clearly laid out what needs to happen for power to be turned on. That doesn’t change through conversation. Let us know when that work will be completed.”
Rodriguez: “Michael, the items he is requesting will not work without power. No one can do anything with a generator which is why we need a call. What is the issue with getting a call to discuss?”
Collins: “That is incorrect. Let us know when the items have been addressed.”
Rubenstein said after Thursday’s phone call she is confident the two sides can improve communications. Clear representatives expect to speak with city officials again Monday.
“They’ve told us they’re going to go back and figure it out so that we can resolve this on Monday,” she said.
Coincidentally, Clear Investment Group filed a lawsuit of its own Thursday, seeking a lower tax assessment for the former Skyline building. The company’s suit claims the vacant 352-unit building is only worth $1.5 million, roughly 11% of what Clear paid for it two years ago.
City assessors have assigned the property a full market value of $15.4 million.
The tax dispute is unrelated to the city lawsuit seeking a receivership.
The bare-bones tax complaint filed Thursday by Clear does not provide documentation to justify the requested 90% cut in assessment. This is the second year the company has sued for a lower assessment. Last year, Clear only sought a 9.3% reduction. That case remains pending.
The Skyline property is one of
four apartment complexes
Clear bought in 2023 from the Greens, after city officials persuaded a judge to appoint a receiver. Because of the squalid condition of the Green properties, a judge in a separate court case later
barred Troy Green
from owning affordable housing in New York state.
All told, Clear spent nearly $21 million buying the properties and planned to sink another $7.7 million in renovations, according to a 2024 prospectus for investors. The plan was to sell the properties after three years or so for a profit of about $15 million.
Two of the four complexes have been renovated and are almost fully rented, according to company officials. A third complex, the former Vincent Apartments off Jamesville Avenue, rebranded by Clear as the Summit Apartments, is undergoing repairs now, Rodriguez said.
RECOMMENDED
Man stabbed inside prominent Syracuse apartment building; 2nd stabbed near Rescue Mission
Mar. 20, 2026, 4:13 p.m.
Syracuse missed opportunities to intervene at Nob Hill apartments (Editorial Board Opinion)
Mar. 22, 2026, 7:00 a.m.
But the three-year plan appears to be off track for the biggest complex, the former Skyline, which Clear has rebranded The Metropolitan.
“To say the least, this has not been a fun 24 hours for us,” Rubenstein said. ”There’s been a lot of miscommunication."
Staff writer Tim Knauss can be reached at
tknauss@syracuse.com
or (315) 470-3023.
Tim Knauss
Tim Knauss is a watchdog reporter on the public affairs team at Syracuse.com, with four decades of experience covering Central New York. Knauss has written about a variety of subjects recently including unfair...
more
tknauss@syracuse.com