Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH

37°

Housing initiative to improve curb appeal for Tipperary Hill and Salt Spring Neighborhoods

by Eleka Goncz

Tue, August 26, 2025 at 3:00 AM
Housing initiative to improve curb appeal for Tipperary Hill and Salt Spring Neighborhoods (Photo by CNY Central)
3
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
HOUSING INITIATIVE
TIPPERARY HILL
SALT SPRINGS
CURB APPEAL
NEIGHBORHOOD PRIDE
SYRACUSE MAYOR
MATCHING GRANTS
HOME IMPROVEMENT

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the launch of a new housing initiative to improve neighborhoods and create housing opportunities for Tipperary Hill and Salt springs Neighborhoods.

Th initiative is called SYRneighborhoods, a Syracuse Housing Strategies corporation (SHSC). The first phase is known as the Neighborhood Block Challenge Program, which will provide matching grants of 50% up to $2,500 per participant, to teams of neighbors who complete exterior home improvement projects that increase the curb appeal of their homes.

“We are excited to open programming for residents in the Salt Springs and Tipperary Hill neighborhoods so they can begin to fix up their homes and improve city neighborhoods together. The Block Challenge Program strengthens neighborhood pride and identity, encouraging neighbors on each block to work together on home improvement projects that are visible from the street. I appreciate the SHSC, the Department of Neighborhood and Business Development, and the Common Council for working on this effort to create more connected, vibrant, and collaborative city neighborhoods,” said Mayor Walsh.

Exterior projects such as façade improvements, structural improvements and landscaping are eligible. Types of projects that fall under those categories that participants can pursue include:

New house numbers
Painting
Installation of a front door
Exterior lighting
New windows or shutters
Installation of new front steps or walkways
Installation of flower boxes or planters
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Participants must own or occupy a residential property in the Tipperary Hill – Far Westside and Salt Springs neighborhoods and apply as part of a team comprised of three or more neighbors.

For more information on eligibility requirements, and how to apply, click here. Applications to apply for the program are now open.

The Syracuse Housing Strategies Corporation (SHSC) will host an informational webinar as well as four in-person meetings. The webinar will be on Tuesday August 26 from 12 to 1 p.m.

Informational meetings will be held from 6 to 7 p.m. on Wednesday, August 27 at the Burnet Park Rink Warming Room and Thursday, August 28 in James Commons at Lemoyne College. Open houses will take place from 6 to 7 p.m. on Wednesday, September 10 at Soule Branch Library and Thursday, September 11 at the Burnet Park Rink Warming Room.

READ THE COMMENTS (3)

Additional SYRneighborhoods programming is planned to launch in 2026 and will be focused on providing grants and low-interest financing to homeowners in the Tipperary Hill – Far Westside and Salt Springs neighborhoods for major home repairs that increase the market value of their property.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Causes of a Lupus Flare: Symptoms, Triggers, and Treatments
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
Renew Your Passport From Home — Here's How.
GovPlus
|
SPONSORED
Lupus Rash in Pictures: How to Recognize and Treat It
GoodRx
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Final total on Syracuse Aquarium is out, full spending picture almost complete
REPORT: Gerry McNamara is set to become the next head coach of Syracuse Men's Basketball
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
17
First week of spring will have some ups and downs with temperatures
10
Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes
12
Some rain for Sunday then at or below average temperatures this week
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.