Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

38°

Dems block trans sports ban

Democrats blocked an amendment allowing transgender athletes to play women’s sports.

WATCH
Syracuse Common Council, Mayor at odds over proposed city budget

by Matthew Benninger and Hannah Devanny

Thu, May 8, 2025 at 3:39 PM
Updated Fri, May 9, 2025 at 10:04 AM
The Syracuse Common Council and Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh are not seeing eye to eye on the city's budget. (PHOTO BY CNY CENTRAL)
12
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
COMMON COUNCIL
MAYOR WALSH
BUDGET
DEFICIT
CUTS
JOBS
SPENDING

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The Syracuse Common Council and Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh are not seeing eye to eye on the city's budget.

President Pro-Tempore of Syracuse Common Council Pat Hogan said that after an initial review of the proposed $348 million Fiscal Year 2026 Budget submitted by the mayor, the council voted unanimously to reject it. Notably, Hogan was concerned over a projected $27 million deficit.

Hogan said the council received insight from an independent analysis of the proposed budget from an outside accounting firm. According to Hogan, the firm recommended broad and targeted cuts to trim "current spending."

The Common Council's revised budget cuts all city departments by about 7% for a total of $16 million spared. The council said that, despite this, no city job was eliminated.

PREVIOUS COERAGE | Syracuse budget to be amended by common council, feature $16M cut and no tax hike

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

But Walsh's Administration is not sure. He held a news conference Thursday afternoon with city department heads to speak out against the revised budget. The conference was held moments after the council's vote. He called the revised budget a, "Crisis of the council's making."

Syracuse Parks Commissioner Syeisha Byrd warned that the 7% cut to her department could eliminate 36 seasonal jobs, which would effect Pops in the Park and other events. She warned some of those events may need to be canceled.

"We get hundreds of calls about grass getting mowed, we won't be able to cover the acres we mow," Byrd said. " When we get calls, it may not happen."

Syracuse Police Chief Joseph Cecile warned that the cuts would impact safety initiatives, namely ShotSpotter, which is a surveillance system used by law enforcement that alerts them to gunfire.

Police Chief Cecile also said this wouldn't effect the police department's main focus. The department's main focus includes 911 calls, investigating major crimes and drug investigations. Instead, things like the Armory Square detail done on Thursday nights through Saturday, dangerous panhandling and loud part details would all be cut. The police academy would also be cut, meaning no new physical officers and less traffic control for festivals or parades. These services would all be gone.

Commissioner of the Department of Public Works Jeremy Robinson and Fire Chief Michael Monds said the 7% cut would impact their departments as well.

Fire Chief Monds explained that reducing the fire department's funds would result in a lot of extreme negatives. This could include an increase in civilian fire injuries, civilian deaths and firefighter injuries.

The council's revised budget does not include a property tax increase or water fee increase.

"As stewards of the city and its taxpayers, the Common Council remains committed to ensuring a stable financial future for the City of Syracuse," Hogan said.

The mayor has 10 days to reject the amendments made by the City Council. Walsh said he is willing to meet the Common Council "somewhere in the middle." The mayor's proposed budget can be viewed at this link.

This is a developing story.

The Syracuse Common Council's May 8 meeting is posted below:

READ THE COMMENTS (12)

Mayor Walsh's May 8 news conference is posted below:




























  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
Mechanics Warn: An Exte nded Car Warranty Is Worth It If The Brand Is One Of These
Forbes
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
Muscle Loss After 50? MD Says It Comes Down To This 1 Nutrient
Lean Health Secrets
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
Trump keeps sharing proposals to fix the hous ing market. Experts...
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
8
Forecast for the first weekend of spring, versus an average spring in Syracuse
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.