By
Geoff Herbert | gherbert@syracuse.com
A longtime Syracuse furniture retailer is expanding with a new location in Upstate New York.
Dunk & Bright will open a new store at South Town Plaza in Henrietta, near Rochester, according to multiple reports. The 72,000-square-foot store is expected to open in April or May, according to
WHAM
, and will hire 20-30 people.
Keep Watching
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
Fourth-generation owner Joe Bright said his company is making a $4 million investment that includes updates to the shopping plaza, its parking lot, and the South Town Plaza sign. Henrietta Town Supervisor Steven Schultz told
WROC
that the sign’s letters were removed this week and will soon be replaced with a logo promoting Dunk & Bright Furniture.
“That was one of the most exciting things about the property, that big pylon sign,” Bright told the
Democrat & Chronicle
.
Schultz said the monument itself will remain “as it is an iconic piece of Henrietta history.”
Dunk & Bright will move in to the plaza’s former Burlington Coat Factory store location and sell a wide range of furniture, including beds, couches and tables from value to designer brands. Bright also told WHAM that his store has more American-made products than its competitors.
RECOMMENDED
NY, other states sue to block $6B merger involving Syracuse TV station’s owner
Mar. 19, 2026, 6:26 p.m.
Popular mall retailer offering up to 80% off as it shuts down all locations after 25 years
Mar. 20, 2026, 10:56 a.m.
It will be the third Dunk & Bright Furniture retail store, and the first outside of Onondaga County.
The business has operated at the same location on South Salina Street in Syracuse since Bright’s great-grandfather, William Bright Sr., and William Dunk Sr. opened it in 1927. Joe Bright opened a
second, 88,000-square-foot location
in the former Macy’s at Great Northern Mall in 2022.
The Clay location is the largest furniture showroom in New York state, according to Bright. Dunk & Bright also operates a distribution center in Liverpool.
Geoff Herbert
Geoff "DeafGeoff" Herbert is a Reporter, SEO Lead and Content Supervisor for syracuse.com | The Post-Standard and Advance Media New York. He covers a wide range of topics including entertainment, Upstate New...
more
gherbert@syracuse.com