Skip to main content
NEWS
WEATHER
NBC3 | CBS5 | CW6
GAME CENTER
SPORTS
WATCH
LIVE

35°

'Baffled': Company running former Skyline responds to City of Syracuse lawsuit

by Conor Wight

Tue, April 15, 2025 at 4:27 PM
Updated Tue, April 15, 2025 at 6:09 PM
4
VIEW ALL PHOTOS
The former Skyline remains boarded up as the city moves forward with a lawsuit against Clear Investment (Photo by CNY Central)
9
Comment
Share
TOPICS:
SYRACUSE
CLEAR INVESTMENT
SKYLINE APARTMENTS
LAWSUIT
RENOVATION
AMY RUBENSTEIN
VANDALISM
HOUSING

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The City of Syracuse is suing the company that promised change at the notorious former Skyline Apartments. That company's CEO said she's "baffled" by the legal action.

"Our goal is to continue the project and get the building open as quickly as possible and provide more housing in Syracuse," CEO Amy Rubenstein said.

Rubenstein spoke to the I-Team this week after the city filed its suit on April 2, asking a judge to install a new receiver to manage the property after alleging Clear Investment has failed to renovate the building. Rubenstein said that while there have been setbacks that she blames on repeat instances of vandalism, her crews have been hard at work to get the apartment building up and running. She said that her team has been in touch with the city for every step.

City of Syracuse moving forward with legal action against Skyline owners

"We haven't stopped working on the project for the past year. We do want to get it open right now and we are on our way to doing that absolutely," Rubenstein said.

Soggy Sunday in CNY, spring warmth back to winter chill and snowflakes

Clear Investment took over the former Skyline in 2023 after the city took legal action against problem landlords Tim and Troy Green, who oversaw the building's decline into a dangerous and unsanitary place. Clear was poised to fix those issues, claiming that everyone needed to leave in order for renovations to begin. Rubenstein said that this didn't happen until Spring 2024.

Court filings from the city show Michael Collins, Commissioner of Neighborhood and Business Development, ask for an update from Rubenstein on Oct. 18, 2024. He said that at the time, his team had no evidence of work being done at the former Skyline; Rubenstein responded by stating that there were two floors just about ready to go. She told the I-Team that someone broke in and caused a flood, delaying plans to start making apartments on those floors available for lease.

A photo taken by Syracuse Code Enforcement in October of 2024, finding that no work had been completed on the property (Photo submitted in court filings by City of Syracuse)

Ryan Shiel, Director of Code Enforcement, wrote in a court document, "In my opinion, no work has been completed on the Premises" after taking a walk-through of the facility on Oct. 31, 2024.

Deputy Mayor Sharon Owens said that the final straw for the city ahead of the lawsuit was a more severe flood in March, stating that a broken pipe left feet of water in the basement, at least half an inch of frozen water on eight floors, and icicles to form outside windows.

The result of flooding at the former Skyline in March 2025 (Photo submitted in court filings by City of Syracuse)

Rubenstein said this was again the result of vandalism, explaining that this happened quickly over one or two days. She said that a crew had been in the building the day before it happened, pushing back on the city's claim that the flood was evidence that no work had been done for weeks.

"The building is secured, it's boarded, it has fences it has alarms it has cameras. It's easier now because we have power. The city kept us from having power for a little while and that was difficult. now we're back up and running," Rubenstein said.

While communication has been open, she said that the city has at times accused them of not having proper permits from City Hall when, instead, permits had been obtained from Onondaga County. Ultimately, she said that collaboration will be key moving forward.

"If the city is interested in having the building be opened and having tenants move in, we're very close. If the city wants to fight it's going to take longer," Rubenstein said.

READ THE COMMENTS (9)

The city, for now, is moving ahead with the lawsuit. Clear Investment is required to respond by April 23.

  
by Taboola
SPONSORED CONTENT
How To Drain Lymph Flui ds In Ankles And Legs? It's Simple
Limpansa
|
SPONSORED
Crack an Egg Yolk in Your Kitchen Sink Every Night, Here’s Why
Life Hacks Place
|
SPONSORED
How Our Body Warns Us That Lymphatic System Is In Danger
Limpansa
|
SPONSORED
MORE TO EXPLORE
Widespread heavy snow developing across CNY
What is a deed of reconv eyance, and how does it work?
Man killed in industrial accident in Skaneateles
TRENDING
Former SU players, Juli Boeheim weigh in on who next basketball coach should be
Siena Head Coach McNamara makes first comments about his future since defeat to Duke
Tractor-trailer hits multiple overpasses over 60 miles on NY Thruway
New York State retailers must take cash under new state law
Healthcare workers warn of "Code Red" as Medicaid funding gap threatens services
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"Local"
5
Here are the two main weather issues we are watching for this weekend
4
Spring arrives with wet weather Friday, additional rain likely Sunday
3
First data set on young Onondaga County children complete; more to follow
3
'Integrity, creativity, leader of men,' What SU's new AD is looking for in coaching search
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
WSTM FCC Info
WSTM FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Applications
WTVH FCC Info
WKOF FCC Applications
WKOF FCC Info
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Contests
Game Center
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences

 2026 Sinclair, Inc.