By
By Oceanna Fair & Nayyirah Shariff
Oceanna Fair is South Branch Leader with Syracuse-based
Families for Lead Freedom Now.
Nayyirah Shariff is director of
Flint Rising.
Even seven months after community leaders in Syracuse
sounded the alarm
that something was horribly wrong with our water, more than
14,000 families
in Syracuse are still getting drinking water from lead service lines. The
evidence
has continued to pile up that our water is unsafe, but no one in power has responded with meaningful action. As a retired nurse, I know firsthand the dangers of lead because three generations of my family, from my brother down to my youngest grandchild, were poisoned by lead. That’s why other Syracuse families and myself created Families for Lead Freedom Now, an all-volunteer group committed to fight against lead poisoning in Syracuse. And that is why Nayyirah Shariff, the Founding Director of Flint Rising, an organization that fought against the lead crisis in Michigan, has joined me to demand safe water for our city.
Last year, the Syracuse Water Department reported that 10% of homes tested had lead levels higher than
70 parts per billion
. That is more than seven times the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 10 parts-per-billion
“action level”
and more than twice as high as what tests captured in Flint, Michigan, which was
27 parts per billion
. The city claims those
results came from improper testing
. We believe the pipes are the problem.
In
October 2024
, we asked government and health officials to take action. Then, in
February
, one of the experts who supported us in Flint released a report finding that despite the city’s claims to the contrary, the water was still dangerous.
In April
, we asked the state Attorney General for relief, but the residents of Syracuse are still waiting.
Lead poisoning is dangerous for everyone, particularly for vulnerable populations like children, pregnant women and nursing mothers. Adults can also suffer from heart attacks and some cancers related to lead exposure. Health experts have found that even low levels of lead in the body can interfere with thought processes, diminish children’s IQ, and cause attention and behavioral problems — all of which affect lifetime learning and earning potential. More than
9% of children
in Syracuse have very high blood levels, and our public water system may only be adding to this number.
There are parallels between Flint’s lead crisis and Syracuse.
Research from Flint
shows that due to the lead-tainted drinking water, there was a 12% decrease in fertility rates and a 58% increase in fetal deaths.
Statistically
, communities like ours — communities of color, particularly in Black, Latino, and low-income communities — are far more likely to have water systems that do not follow the rules. And in Syracuse, our children are already overburdened with high levels of toxic lead from
multiple sources
, like soil and paint. Safe drinking water is a human right, and Syracuse should not be left to suffer.
Flint should be a reminder of the need for proactive measures to prevent future problems, the need for transparency in government decision-making, and the need for accountability from public health officials. We know what our communities need most, and it’s time officials start listening to us.
The EPA recently announced an investigation of the Syracuse water system, but families have not been given a seat at the table to decide what comes next. If the EPA and local officials expect to get into peoples’ homes to replace the lead lines, they will first need to counter the distrust residents feel due to the mishandling of water testing, the tendency of the city to
side with landlords
, and the secrecy that currently exists around the remediation of the tainted water. Addressing public health crises requires collaboration between government agencies, public health professionals, and the community.
We obviously need Syracuse to replace all of the lead pipes, but there are a few things that Mayor Ben Walsh, Commissioner of Water Robert Brandt and the Syracuse Common Council can do now but aren’t doing. They must effectively notify residents who have lead service lines that they may be drinking lead and inform them of when their service lines will be replaced. Next, every single impacted household must receive a point-of-use filter attached to nozzles. Currently, many residents still don’t know about the lead problem, let alone know
who to reach out to for a filter
; and even if they know, not everyone is approved to receive a filter. Residents must be contacted and educated about the risks of lead poisoning so they can take immediate steps to protect their health.
Walsh, Brandt and the Syracuse Common Council must address Syracuse’s lead-contaminated drinking water as the urgent public health crisis it is. This begins by informing residents of the threat from their taps, taking swift action to protect them, and working collaboratively with the community.
Syracuse residents get 2 more notices about lead in drinking water. What’s the problem now?
Syracuse’s water pipe woes: It’s going to take twice as long to replace lead lines, city admits
Syracuse needs to replace lead water pipes with more urgency (Your Letters)