By
Renee Fox | rfox@syracuse.com
SYRACUSE, N.Y. - South Side residents near a proposed battery storage system fear that it could catch fire and pollute their community.
Beata Karpinska lives less than a quarter-mile from the proposed 426 E. Brighton Ave. site.
Keep Watching
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
“They said the site isn’t close to residences, but it is,” she said.
There are houses nearby, student housing, an apartment building and a gas station across the street, she said.
“It would be a man-made disaster zone if it catches on fire,” Karpinska said.
Representatives from Troy-based New Leaf Energy argued Friday before Syracuse’s Economic Development Committee that the company should be granted a special-use permit to move the project forward.
The battery energy storage systems charge up using power from the grid when demand for electricity is lowest, at night. Then they feed that power back to the grid during the daytime, when demand is highest.
New York officials authorized a new round of financial incentives to encourage the development of the battery systems, as one way to increase the reliability of the electric grid as demand for energy in New York ramps up with the growth of data centers and advanced manufacturing.
The lithium-ion battery facilities are billed as more green because they could reduce the need to generate energy with natural gas and oil to meet peak demand.
The batteries at the site would store enough electricity to serve 6,000 to 7,000 households.
Fire Chief Michael Monds said he would refuse to sign off on the proposed plan as it stands.
As it’s designed now, he said, the 20,000-square-foot system would be about the size of a yard, and too close to the neighboring structures around it to meet fire codes.
The project’s senior project developer, Terrence Nolan, said a fire is highly unlikely.
But if there is a fire, it’s left to burn itself out. The batteries are stored inside a metal box. Water is used to stop the fire from spreading, but the water can’t reach the flames inside the box.
That means firefighters would have to monitor the fire and make sure it doesn’t spread to other structures.
“We are not outright rejecting it, or saying we need to ban this technology,” Monds said. “But we need to do our due diligence, consult with experts, the water department and consider the environmental impact.”
Karpinska said the system may work in testing, but components fail over time. And, because the system is designed to burn until the system is consumed, if it catches fire, she worries about the resulting fumes and other materials that will be left behind.
“I don’t want that in my organic garden,” she said.
State fire prevention officials recently approved new safety regulations for lithium-ion battery installations. Those changes were triggered by three big fires at battery energy storage systems in 2023 in New York. The fires occurred in Jefferson, Orange and Suffolk counties. In each case, they took a day or more to extinguish.
The energy committee on Friday held off on issuing a special use permit.
Councilors Pat Hogan and Marty Nave said they support the project’s goals, but want to see it in a different location.
Hogan said the next step is a public hearing, where people like Karpinska will be invited to give their opinions. Karpinska spoke with
syracuse.com
following the meeting.
Hogan said the project before the committee today is just the first to make it this far. He said proposals have also come in from a company called PureSky Energy, looking at land on Erie Boulevard West.
Nave said he’s heard of another proposal on Park Street.
“The location is near a neighborhood and businesses. I think we should keep these in industrial areas,” Nave said.
Hogan said the city may need to update zoning codes to spell out rules for large-scale battery storage operations like this.
The company’s had three other projects in the last two years with no incidents, Nolan said. Nor at 40 other sites in New York City, said Paul Rogers, a company co-founder and retired firefighter.
Rogers said they’ve developed standards to make the system safe, after a lot of testing.
RECOMMENDED
Candidate offers next-decade solutions to today’s energy prices (Guest Opinion by Chris Reagen)
Mar. 19, 2026, 1:56 p.m.
Little time left to comment on $3 million plan to improve how shoppers walk to Regional Market
Mar. 19, 2026, 9:30 a.m.
Nolan said the site would not be manned. The systems would be monitored from a centralized location and have internal systems to alert to issues.
The planning commission gave preliminary approval for the project in
September
, but the city has to issue the permit for it to move forward.
The city of Oswego has placed a 12-month ban on the battery storage facilities.
Renee Fox
Renee Fox is an investigative reporter covering consumer issues, businesses, utilities and public money for syracuse.com | The Post-Standard. 
Before arriving at Advance Media New York in 2025, Renee spent...
more
rfox@syracuse.com