By
Tim Knauss | tknauss@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – City Hall efforts to modernize computer systems have been marred at times by lax oversight, to the point where Syracuse officials still aren’t sure whether the IT consultant they fired five months ago performed all the work the city paid for.
Those are among the observations in a 25-page audit report
commissioned earlier this year
by the city council in the wake of delays and cost overruns in a project to upgrade information technology systems.
Controversy over the city IT project exploded last fall after a whistleblower filed a complaint that her small four-person firm, Advanced IT, had been used as a pass-through to award a no-bid contract to national company EY, formerly known as Ernst & Young.
The whistleblower’s complaint set off a
monthslong drama at City Hall
, with swirling accusations of fraud, mismanagement and a coverup. A senior mayoral aide
resigned
. The
budget director was fired
and launched his own
campaign for mayor
.
The report released today, written by consultants at The Bonadio Group at a cost of roughly $88,000, shed no new light on that drama. It found no fraud or coverup.
But the report did cite concerns that EY might not have completed all the work it billed the city for. EY officials said those concerns were unfounded.
The Bonadio report included only a brief analysis of the whistleblower’s complaint, based on interviews with city employees. Bonadio auditors said they agreed with a previous analysis by the corporation counsel’s office that said the no-bid contract issued to EY had not violated city purchasing rules.
“The use of the waiver process during the Payroll Modernization Project, though unusual, does not violate the City’s procurement procedures,’’ the auditors wrote.
Two former city employees who worked with EY – Chief Administrative Officer Frank Caliva and Kelsey May, director of digital services – declined to be interviewed, the report said.
Mayor Ben Walsh months ago acknowledged weaknesses in how his administration managed EY’s work to modernize the city’s paper-based payroll system. Walsh terminated the contract with EY in January, after the new payroll system failed to go live.
Around the same time, Walsh accepted the resignation of Caliva, the senior staffer in charge of the project.
Although it largely ignored the procurement process, the Bonadio report included a detailed breakdown of work that city officials say EY may not have completed. EY was paid about $3 million, city officials have said previously. According to Bonadio, city officials question whether some of the tasks were completed.
EY officials told Bonadio in an email that the company completed all its tasks. “(EY) performed the agreed-upon services timely pursuant to the terms of the relevant project agreements,’’ EY told the auditors, according to the report.
Walsh said city officials are still reviewing the records and will pursue EY for compensation if warranted.
“We have concerns that not all of what we have been billed for has been delivered. And so that process of analyzing the invoices and the work product has been underway,’’ he said.
The city has issued a request for proposals for a new contractor to implement software for the payroll system. Responses are during in early July, and city officials hope to finish the project by the end of the year, Walsh said.
In its analysis of city IT systems generally, Bonadio said the city’s process for acquiring software is too decentralized. Each department typically manages its own software.
“It is likely that this has led at times to increased costs and ineffective project management,’’ the report said.
The report recommended establishing the position of chief technology officer to improve oversight. Walsh agreed. He said he tried to add a CTO position last year, but the council cut it from the budget. He said he would try to install a chief technology officer this year.
The auditors identified specific areas where the city could cut ongoing costs for software. They identified $328,000 in potential annual savings.
The city’s total software budget is $2 million this year, a decrease from $2.65 million that Walsh had requested.
The auditors also recommended that administration officials and common councilors demand more detailed reporting from IT vendors and exercise better oversight so that project costs don’t spiral when unanticipated problems arise.
Walsh said the Bonadio report validated most of what city officials are doing.
“I take this report as positive reinforcement for this administration, that we are largely doing things right as it comes to IT,’’ he said. “And where we’ve identified our shortcomings on payroll modernization, (those conclusions) are reflected in here.’’
The report brought a far different response from some common councilors, who discussed it this morning during a committee meeting.
“It shows basically a culture of mismanagement and lack of accountability,” said Councilor Pat Hogan, who is running for mayor.
Councilor Corey Williams, who chairs the finance committee, had a more neutral take. He said the Bonadio report is “super helpful’’ in analyzing EY’s contract for possible unfinished deliverables. The report also provides value by identifying areas where the city could save money, he said.
RECOMMENDED
Syracuse.com’s 2026 media day baseball coach poll: Most likely to have breakout season? (photos)
Mar. 20, 2026, 12:06 a.m.
School closings in Central NY: Delays for a second day this week (Wednesday March 18)
Mar. 18, 2026, 9:18 p.m.
“It surely gives us things to think about and talk about,’’ he said.
Assessment of Syracuse Applications - DRAFT Report
by
Tim Knauss
Staff writer Tim Knauss can be reached at:
email
|
Twitter
| 315-470-3023.
Tim Knauss
Tim Knauss is a watchdog reporter on the public affairs team at Syracuse.com, with four decades of experience covering Central New York. Knauss has written about a variety of subjects recently including unfair...
more
tknauss@syracuse.com