By
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. – Veteran developer and hotelier Norm Swanson is proposing to build an 88-unit apartment building on University Hill, but he says it won’t be limited to students.
Swanson has submitted plans to the city for a five-story apartment building on a vacant lot at 201 S. Crouse Ave. It would have 88 studio apartments.
Keep Watching
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
Israeli Parliament ‘ATTACKED’; Iran Fires Cluster Missiles Toward Knesset | Netanyahu Office HIT?
He has applied to the Syracuse Planning Commission, via 700 Out Parcel LLC, for site plan approval and a resubdivision that would allow him to combine two parcels into one.
In addition to the apartment building, Swanson plans to renovate a late-1800s home next door at 1010 E. Washington St. into a unique event space for tenants of the apartments.
Rendering depicts an 88-unit, five-story apartment building proposed by developer Norm Swanson at 201 S. Crouse Ave. in Syracuse. (Mosher Architects)
Mosher Architects
The project location is just a few blocks north of Syracuse University, but Swanson said it will be open for leasing to students and non-students. The location should appeal to both students and professionals seeking proximity to University Hill or downtown, he said.
Rents have not been determined yet, he said.
Update:
The planning commission was scheduled to consider the project at its meeting on Monday, Dec. 15, but city officials said the item has been pulled from the agenda and will be considered at a later meeting. The Syracuse Landmark Preservation Board will also review the project.
Swanson is best known for developing hotels. His portfolio includes the
Hotel Skyler
and the Parkview Hotel in Syracuse,
Tailwater Lodge
in Altmar, and Skaneateles Boutique Hotel and Skaneateles Fields Resort & Spa in Skaneateles. He has also developed
Skyler Commons
and
Copper Beech Apartments
.
Developer Norm Swanson has proposed an 88-unit apartment building on this site at 201 S. Crouse Ave. in Syracuse. The 1800s-era home in the background would serve as amenity space for tenants of the apartments. (Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com)
Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
New York to drop requirement that gun permit applicants list social media accounts
The famous Syracuse train station with the plaster human figures is losing its iconic smokestack
Battery powered air taxis could soon be flying over Syracuse
Onondaga County’s top waste management official is retiring, search starts for replacement
45 workers laid off as rival acquires Central New York blood lab
Rick Moriarty
I report on business news and consumer issues for The Post-Standard and syracuse.com. I can be reached at (315) 470-3148.
rmoriarty@syracuse.com