By
Jeremy Boyer | JBoyer@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. — While the city may have “the moral high ground” in a lawsuit brought by a drunk driver’s passenger, it could lose more money by taking the case to trial.
That’s the message from the city’s top lawyer after the Syracuse Common Council approved a $110,000 settlement in a 6-3 vote Monday. Councilors Pat Hogan, Marty Nave and Jimmy Monto voted against the settlement.
A trial was scheduled to start this month in the case, which stemmed from a
June 2020 crash
on the city’s North Side.
The city’s legal department
requested the settlement
at least in part because of the state’s joint liability law. In New York, a defendant found 1% at fault can be forced to pay up to 100% of the damages other defendant’s with greater liability cannot pay.
Syracuse Corporation Counsel Susan Katzoff said attorney-client privilege limits what she can say publicly about the decision to settle, but she emphasized that the city is not admitting any liability.
“Every settlement involves an analysis that takes into consideration numerous factors, including but not limited to fees and costs associated with winning as well as the inherent risks built into litigation and joint ... liability,” she said. “Corporation Counsel’s recommendations reflect those considerations and the reality that the moral high ground is not always in the best financial interest of the City.”
In the case before the council, Syracuse resident Raykeisha Rouse sued the city and the driver of the vehicle in the June 22, 2020, crash. She sustained facial cuts that required stitches, broken ribs and a shattered elbow needed surger. She was not wearing a seat belt.
Rouse’s complaint said the driver of the city’s 60,000-pound recycling truck was partially liable because he failed to yield the right of way. The truck was driving into the intersection of Scoville Avenue and Oak Street after stopping at a stop sign, while the vehicle that crashed into it was speeding up Oak Street. The drunk driver, Cueshan Allen, of Syracuse, was charged with a felony for driving while intoxicated because a 10-year-old child one of five passengers in his vehicle. He pleaded guilty to a reduced charge.
The city truck driver said he believed Allen’s vehicle was far enough away for him to safely go across Oak Street, according to a deposition. The truck driver was not ticketed but the police report noted that his “failure to yield” was an “apparent contributing factor” in the crash. Allen’s speed and intoxicated state were the other named factors.
The
Lawsuit Reform Alliance of New York
has advocated for several years against the state’s joint liability law in favor of a “fair share liability” law. It argues the current system encourages lawsuits that include deeper-pocketed municipalities and school districts.
There was no public discussion during the common council’s meeting ahead of the vote.
Hogan said last week that he was against settling the case because he doesn’t believe a jury would find the city had any liability in the case.
Monto said he decided to vote “no” in a spur of the moment decision, noting that the facts of the crash speak for themselves.
Nave, whose father was
killed by a drunk driver
in 2011, said he believes the driver in the June 2020 crash should be fully accountable. He said the city’s truck being in the intersection could have prevented a worse crash.
Sharon Owens gives her I-81 director an ultimatum: move to Syracuse or you’re fired
Notorious Syracuse landlord faced an eviction from the city. Then, a surprise
Syracuse University may shut down a city block for 2 years. How much should it cost?
City’s move from downtown into new Syracuse police and fire headquarters starts soon
Syracuse lawmakers reject law restricting rent increases, evictions
Jeremy Boyer
After graduating with a degree in print journalism in 1997, Jeremy Boyer has worked as a reporter and editor at daily newspapers in northern Virginia, Oneonta, Schenectady, Albany and Auburn. He was the...
more
JBoyer@syracuse.com