By
Mike Waters | mwaters@syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. ― Syracuse is working to finalize an agreement to make Gerry McNamara the next head coach of the Orange basketball program,
ESPN reported
Sunday.
Syracuse athletic director Bryan Blair spoke to McNamara multiple times over the last week, according to the report.
A source with knowledge of the talks between SU officials and McNamara told Syracuse.com the deal isn’t done yet, but thought it could be “today or tomorrow.’'
McNamara, who played at Syracuse from 2002 to 2006 and started as a freshman on the school’s 2003 NCAA championship team, would take over at Syracuse after spending the last two years as the head coach at Siena.
This season, McNamara guided Siena to the school’s first NCAA Tournament berth since 2010. On Thursday, the Saints, seeded 16th in the NCAA’s East Regional,
threw a scare into top-seeded Duke
before falling 71-65.
McNamara would become just the ninth coach in Syracuse basketball’s history, which started in 1900.
He would be tasked with restoring Syracuse’s basketball program to its past glory. Recent years have not be kind to the Orange. Syracuse has missed out on the NCAA Tournament for five straight years, the last three of which were under former head coach Adrian Autry.
Syracuse fired Autry after the Orange went 15-17 this past season. It was the second-straight losing season for Syracuse.
McNamara was an assistant to Jim Boeheim from 2011 through 2023 when the Hall of Fame coach retired. McNamara then served as Autry’s top assistant for one year before taking the head-coaching job at Siena.
56
1
/
56
Syracuse basketball icon Gerry McNamara is expected to return to his alma mater to become the head coach after two seasons coaching Siena College in Loudonville, New York, outside Albany. Known for his competitive fire and 3-point shooting, McNamara is one of the most beloved figures in Syracuse sports history, having helped lead the basketball program to the NCAA championship as a freshman in 2003.
McNamara guided Siena, which had a 4-28 record the year before he got there, to 14 wins in his first season and then this year’s run to the NCAA Tournament.
In returning to Syracuse, McNamara would need to restore energy and excitement to the JMA Wireless Dome. In addition to waning on-court success, Syracuse has also seen a steady drop in attendance.
One reason for Syracuse’s recent mediocrity on the court has been a lack of financial support in terms of both funding the roster and staffing needs.
It’s possible the return of a legend — McNamara was a part of some of the most memorable moments in SU history — will convince both school officials and the team’s fans to provide more support for the program.
In talks with McNamara, Syracuse officials stressed a commitment to fund the program so that it could compete in the top third of the 18-team ACC, ESPN reported.
McNamara came to Syracuse out of Bishop Hannan High School in Scranton, Pa., where he was already a legend after leading the Lancers to the PIAA Class AA state championship as a senior.
Bus loads of fans would make the trip from Scranton to Syracuse to see McNamara play for the Orange.
In his first year, he teamed with fellow freshman Carmelo Anthony to propel Syracuse to its
only NCAA championship in men’s basketball
. McNamara made six 3-pointers in the title game against Kansas.
He would go onto score 2,099 points in his career, which still ranks fourth on the school’s all-time list.
For his final act, McNamara lifted Syracuse to an incredible run through the 2006 Big East Tournament, winning four games in four days to win the tournament and walk away with the Most Valuable Player award. He hit clutch shots against Cincinnati and Connecticut.
His No. 3 jersey was retired during a ceremony on March 4, 2023. And during that ceremony, McNamara said these words:
“This is a special place. Thank you from the bottom of my heart for how I’ve been treated here since I came here from Scranton, PA. This is a special place to live. It has my heart.”
Syracuse basketball continues search for head coach: An updated list of candidates
Jim Boeheim on Gerry McNamara’s coaching job vs. Duke: ‘He did everything he could do to win’
Syracuse’s new AD Bryan Blair on the basketball coaching search: ‘We’ll have something soon’
Has a school ever hired 3 straight former players as head basketball coach? (Mike’s Mailbox)
Mike Waters
Mike Waters has covered the Syracuse University basketball program for the past 37 years. His work has earned awards from the Associated Press Sports Editors and the U.S. Basketball Writers' Association. In...
more
mwaters@syracuse.com