Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Franklin Square Fountain to be Temporarily Removed for Restoration
Listen
Franklin Square Fountain to be Temporarily Removed for Restoration

Published on October 30, 2023

The City of Syracuse Department of Parks & Recreation today announced the cast metal fountain in Franklin Square Park, located at 601 Plum Street, will be temporarily removed for restoration and repairs. The removal is scheduled to start on Tuesday, October 31.

“We know park-goers visit Franklin Square Park to celebrate and capture many important milestones near the fountain, and all around the park, so our goal is to preserve and ensure its longevity for future generations,” said Parks Commissioner Tony Williams

Specialists from Robinson Iron will dismantle and transport the fountain to Alexander City, Alabama to complete the restorative work. While in Alabama, the fountain will be stripped down to bare metal, repaired, painted and coated with protective finishings to prevent corrosion.

The fountain has been a focal point in Franklin Square since the neighborhood’s redevelopment in the late 1980s. Robinson Iron originally fabricated and assembled the cast iron fountain in 1991.

The fountain restoration and repairs are expected to be completed by the middle of 2024.

For updates on this project visit https://bit.ly/3Q2nYcZ. 

 

Tagged as:
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready