Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Walsh Announces Syracuse Wins Transportation Project of the Year
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces Syracuse Wins Transportation Project of the Year

Published on October 05, 2023

Department of Public Works Awarded for Data-driven Pilot Traffic Safety Program

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the City of Syracuse Department of Public Works (DPW) received Transportation Project of the Year for the Speed Hump Pilot Program by the Upstate Chapter of the Institute of Transportation Engineers. The award is given to the top engineering project in the region and highlights the data-driven approach that DPW has taken with the implementation of speed humps across the City.

Since 2021, the City has installed more than a dozen traffic-calming speed humps and cushions in neighborhoods and parks around Syracuse, contributing to the City’s Vision Zero initiative. The Department of Public Works collects radar data before and after installation to monitor any changes in traffic patterns. DPW, in partnership with consultants from Fisher Associates, have worked closely with the Syracuse Fire Department to develop new “speed cushion” designs that slow passenger vehicles but allow fire trucks to pass through quickly without delay. Expansion of the locations included in the pilot are expected this fall.

“Traffic calming is a key aspect of improving safety on city streets. We will continue to monitor these installations and iterate on new designs to make sure we are rolling out effective projects,” said Neil Burke, DPW Director of Special Projects. “These installations bolster additional efforts underway that support sustainable transportation across the city, such as the Municipal Sidewalk Program and fare-free transit for city employees.”

“The award is a testament to the City’s commitment to reduce speeding in residential neighborhoods and parks; and having a goal of eliminating traffic fatalities and severe injuries citywide,” said Timothy Faulker, Senior Transportation Manager for Fisher Associates. “Fisher Associates is proud to collaborate with the City of Syracuse on this project which aligns perfectly with our core purpose which is to cultivate our gifts to create a legacy of infrastructure that improves quality of life”.

In January 2023, Mayor Walsh announced the City of Syracuse’s commitment to become a “Vision Zero” city. Vision Zero is a global initiative aimed at eliminating all traffic fatalities and serious motor vehicle injuries in cities that participate in the program. More information on Vision Zero is available at www.visionzeronetwork.org.

 

Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready