Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / Street Closing Information for 2023 Festa Italiana
Listen
Street Closing Information for 2023 Festa Italiana

Published on September 12, 2023

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – Festa Italiana will run on Friday, September 15, Saturday, September 16 and Sunday, September 17 in front of City Hall.

Festival set-up in the lot adjacent to the KeyBank Building on Montgomery and East Washington Streets will begin the morning of Thursday, September 14. The lot will reopen Monday morning, September 18.

The following street closings will take place beginning on Thursday, September 14 through Monday, September 18:

Starting at 9 a.m., the 300 block of East Washington Street, from Montgomery Street to South State Street, will be closed through Monday morning.
Starting at 1 p.m., Montgomery Street, from East Washington Street to East Fayette Street, will be closed through Monday morning.
Starting at 5 p.m., the following streets will be closed through Monday morning:
200 block of East Washington Street, east of the KeyBank drive-through to State Street.
Montgomery Street, from East Water Street to East Washington Street.
Market Street, from East Washington to East Water Street.

Learn more about Festa Italiana at https://festaitalianasyracuse.org.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Register for Media List
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Syracuse Parks & Recreation News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready