Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / City of Syracuse Warns of Traffic Delays on East Colvin Street
Listen
City of Syracuse Warns of Traffic Delays on East Colvin Street

Published on September 07, 2023

Syracuse, N.Y. – The City of Syracuse is advising drivers that road reconstruction may cause traffic delays on East Colvin Street between Interstate 81 and Jamesville Avenue.  The City is conducting milling in the area this week and will complete paving next week.  

During the milling and paving, traffic flow will be reduced to one lane and flaggers will be used to alternate traffic flow. Using other routes is recommended during this time. The roadway will open to two-way traffic in the evening until work starts in the morning. 

The repaving is part of East Colvin Street improvement project. The “dig once” infrastructure project includes full depth reconstruction of the road including new pavement, new bike lanes, new sidewalks, curb installations, replacement of water mains and lead water services, rehabilitation of sewer infrastructure, and landscaping improvements. The project is expected to be completed by the end of October. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Register for Media List
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready