Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/West Fayette Street Closed for Sink Hole Repair
Listen
West Fayette Street Closed for Sink Hole Repair

Published on June 21, 2023

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – The City of Syracuse Department of Water is working to repair a sink hole on the 100-block of West Fayette between South Salina Street and Clinton Street. There is no disruption in water service to businesses and residents in the area.

The 100-block of West Fayette Street is closed to all vehicular traffic while crews repair the sink hole. Crews began assessing the repairs this morning. Work is scheduled to begin Thursday, June 22. The road is expected to remain closed during repairs. Crews are working to minimize disruption to Downtown traffic during the weekend.

Businesses on the 100-block of West Fayette Street are expected to remain open and accessible via the sidewalk.

If residents have questions or concerns, please call Cityline at (315) 448-CITY (2489). You may also submit service requests and concerns to Cityline via the SYR Cityline app or online at syr.gov/cityline. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Register for Media List
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready