Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / Mayor Walsh Announces Repaving West Genesee Street Near Downtown
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces Repaving West Genesee Street Near Downtown

Published on September 08, 2023

Mayor Ben Walsh announces the repaving of a large section of West Genesee Street near downtown Syracuse beginning Monday, September 11. Crews will mill and pave along West Genesee Street from North Clinton Street to West Street. The final pavement layer will be placed later after all the utility covers are reset.

This work is a part of the Dig Once projects that aim to coordinate with utility providers (water, sewer, telecommunication, gas, etc.) with the goal of replacing and repairing as much underground infrastructure as possible to minimize any future excavations made in newly paved roads.

The roads will remain open during construction. Work is expected to take place from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and be completed in about one week. Actual project start dates and timeframes are contingent on favorable weather.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Register for Media List
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready