Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/City Of Syracuse To Begin Issuing Citations For Trash Cart Violations
Listen
City Of Syracuse To Begin Issuing Citations For Trash Cart Violations

Published on October 31, 2023

The City of Syracuse Department of Public Works (DPW) announced it will start issuing citations beginning Wednesday, Nov. 1 to property owners who do not follow setout requirements for trash carts. Fines are $100 for households that fail to correct violations after receiving a citation.

The City expanded the sanitation cart program citywide in September. During the past seven weeks, Sanitation crews issued warning notices without citations or fines at properties that did not follow setout requirements. According to DPW, the most common mistakes made were not using the city-provided trash cart; leaving additional trash outside the new cart; overfilling carts so the cover doesn’t close; and failing to bag all trash placed in the carts.

As of November 1, DPW will not pick up trash that is improperly set out, and crews will issue a citation notice. Property owners will have 24 hours to pull back their trash setout to avoid having to pay the fine. The trash can be set out properly for pickup the following week. Excess trash can also be transported to an Onondaga County Resource Recovery Agency drop-off site. Locations and fee information for OCCRA drop-off site can be found at ocrra.org.

“Most properties are abiding by the setout requirements. We are grateful to residents for adapting to the carts so quickly,” said Jeremy Robinson, DPW commissioner. “We don’t want to issue citations and impose fines, so we urge residents to review the information materials distributed with the carts or available on syr.gov/carts.”

Fines continue to be $350 related to a health and sanitation violation such as an illegal setout.

The requirements for trash setouts are:

Do place only bagged waste in your carts. Unbagged materials are unacceptable.
Do securely close the cart lid to prevent litter and scavenging.
On your regular collection day, place your cart at the end of your driveway or in front of your house between the sidewalk and street.
Do store your cart on the side of the house or garage, behind the house or garage, or in your garage when it is not your collection day.
Call Cityline at (315)448-CITY (2489) if you have an item that does not fit in your cart.
Don’t store your cart in front of your residence.
Don’t place recyclables in your cart. Recycling carts will be rolled out to the city in 2024. Continue to use your current recycling container.
Don’t place prohibited items, such as yard waste, hazardous/toxic waste, paint, TVs and other electronics, demolition waste, medical/pathological waste, explosives, or radioactive materials in your cart.

More information about the new trash cart program is at syr.gov/carts. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Communications
Register for Media List
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready