Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / City Invites Public Input on South Side Infrastructure Project
Listen
City Invites Public Input on South Side Infrastructure Project

Published on June 06, 2023

City Engineering to Accept Public Input on Midland Avenue Paving Project until June 20

Syracuse, N.Y. – The City of Syracuse Engineering Department announced it will open public input today on the Midland Avenue Paving Project. The project consists of significant roadwork, sidewalk construction, traffic signal replacement, and accessibility upgrades. Public input began with a public meeting, June 6th at 5:00 p.m. at the Cecile Community Center at 174 W Seneca Turnpike, to allow residents to learn about improvements planned on the South Side of Syracuse.

The paving work for the project consists of milling and resurfacing the existing roadway pavement on Midland Avenue spanning from West Seneca Turnpike (NY 173) to West Ostrander Avenue. City engineers anticipate vehicular traffic to be maintained and driveways to be always accessible for the duration of the construction project. Approximately 1,300 linear feet of new sidewalk will also be constructed to close the gap in sidewalk availability along the east side of Midland Avenue between West Florence Avenue and Ballantyne Road. The traffic signal at the intersection of Midland Avenue and Ballantyne Road will be replaced and pedestrian signals upgraded to meet ADA requirements. In addition, all curb ramps in the corridor will be upgraded to meet ADA requirements.

Residents can learn about the project at https://syracusemidland.weebly.com/ and leave public comments for the City Engineers. Public comments will be accepted until June 20. Construction work is not scheduled to begin until March 2025. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Register for Media List
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready