Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Walsh Announces Distribution of 36,500 New Trash Carts
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces Distribution of 36,500 New Trash Carts

Published on September 05, 2023

By the middle of September, all households citywide will have new covered trash carts

Mayor Walsh says the new system is better for constituents, makes neighborhoods cleaner and is safer for workers

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – With three months of experience at nearly 7,000 properties, the City of Syracuse is bringing better sanitation service using uniform covered trash carts and semi-automated pickup citywide. Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the Department of Public Works began delivering new trash carts to 36,500 households across the city beginning Tuesday, Sept. 5. The distribution of carts is planned take about ten days. Residents are expected to begin using them right away.

“This is a big positive change for our constituents, neighborhoods and workforce,” said Mayor Walsh. “Where we’ve already introduced the new trash carts, the service is better, and the streets are cleaner. And on routes where the carts and tippers are being used, we’ve had zero injuries to our sanitation workers. This is a huge undertaking, and we are proud of how our sanitation workers and residents are responding.”

All city trash trucks are now equipped with “tipper arms” to help complete pickups. City sanitation workers position the carts for pickup and empty by the automated tipper. The system eliminates repetitive lifting by workers that can lead to injury. Covered recycling carts will be introduced in 2024.  

The new carts are provided and delivered at no additional charge to all residential properties. The carts come with instructions on how to use them and what to do with old trash receptacles. Residents will be able to access online versions of the instructions in four languages (Spanish, Arabic, Vietnamese, and Nepali) at syr.gov/carts. Property owners with disabilities can contact Cityline at 315-448-CITY (2489) regarding special accommodations. 

Setout instructions

For trash setouts, carts must be placed at the end of the driveway or between the sidewalk and the street after 6 p.m. on the evening before the designated setout day. For properties without driveways, place carts between the sidewalk and the street. The lid must be securely closed at the time of collection. 

Only bagged waste can be placed in carts. Unbagged materials are unacceptable. Waste cannot be placed outside of carts. This will be considered an illegal set-out and may be cited and fined. Recyclables must be placed in existing blue bins.

Carts must be stored on the side of or behind the house/garage or in the garage when it is not the designated collection day. Carts must not be stored in front of residences. 

For an item that does not fit in a trash cart, including tires and furniture, please call Cityline at 315-448-CITY to request a bulk pickup. Residential units are allowed four bulk pickups per year. Additional bags of trash outside of the cart are not allowed and will be cited as an illegal set out. An illegal setout may incur a fine.  

More information on the trash cart rollout is available at syr.gov/carts.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Communications
Register for Media List
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready