Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / Mayor Walsh Announces Final Stage of West Genesee Street Project
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces Final Stage of West Genesee Street Project

Published on October 05, 2023

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced repaving along the West Genesee Street “Dig Once” project from downtown to the city line will begin Monday, October 9. Paving work follows the replacement of underground infrastructure on the approximately 2.3-mile stretch of West Genesee Street from South Salina Street to Myrtle Street.

This work is a part of the Dig Once projects that aim to coordinate with utility providers (water, sewer, telecommunication, gas, etc.) with the goal of replacing and repairing as much infrastructure as possible to minimize any future excavations made in newly paved roads. 

The road will remain open during construction. Drivers should expect delays and are advised to use alternate routes if possible. Pavement operations are expected to take place from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and be completed by the end of November.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready