Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Annemarie Deegan Named First Deputy Commissioner of Finance
Listen
Annemarie Deegan Named First Deputy Commissioner of Finance

Published on October 05, 2023

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the appointment of Annemarie Deegan to the First Deputy Commissioner of Finance. In this role, Deegan will be responsible for the financial operations of the City of Syracuse, providing strategic leadership and direction in centralized financial operations, payroll and capital management, as well as risk management and mitigation.

Deegan will also be responsible for working across departments to identify and launch pilot programs, modernizing City operations and monitoring financial processes for improvements and efficiencies.

Deegan has been with the City since 2008, beginning her career with City government in the Department of Parks, Recreation and Youth Programs, before joining the Office of Management and Budget in 2017 and later the Department of Finance in 2020. Prior to her role as First Deputy Commissioner, Deegan served as the Director of Financial Operations where she provided oversight, coordination and evaluation of the procurement and payment process of the City and played a central role in modernizing the City’s timekeeping, payroll and financial systems processes.

Deegan received her Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) from Daeman College and is currently studying for her Master of Business Administration at SUNY Oswego. She is a graduate of FOCUS Greater Syracuse Citizen’s Academy and is a member of the CenterState CEO’S 2023 Executive Leadership Cohort. 

 

Tagged as:
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready