Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / Mayor Walsh Announces Release of 2025 City Services Guide
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces Release of 2025 City Services Guide

Published on December 26, 2024

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the 2025 City Services Guide will begin arriving to city resident mailboxes starting Monday, Dec 30. The reference guide, created by the Department of Public Works (DPW), is used by residents all year long for need-to-know guidelines and dates for DPW services, as well as contact information for services provided by City departments. 

“The City Services guide provides residents with valuable information to better understand the services available through City departments,” said Mayor Walsh. “It strengthens community ties and ensures that those living in the city can easily access essential resources.” 

The booklet outlines services provided by the City and resident responsibilities for trash and recycling disposal, sidewalk clearing and maintenance, and sewer services. The guide includes a map of city quadrants for DPW pickups and a full schedule for biweekly recycling, yard waste and leaf pickups in 2025. 

Cityline, the City’s service request tool, offers residents access to customer service representatives who can answer questions or direct each request to the appropriate department to address. Using the mobile app or the web portal, all city residents can submit service requests, check progress on requests, offer direct feedback, and have access to requests submitted by your neighbors. The City Services Guide refers residents to the Cityline phone number 315-448-CITY (2489) and social media handle (@syrcityline) more frequently to ensure residents can view non-emergency service-related updates as they are posted regularly. 

A directory of phone numbers for immediate assistance can be found on the front of the guide. The 2025 City Services Guide can also be downloaded below.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready