Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / County and City Announce Details of Free Water Filter Distribution
Listen
County and City Announce Details of Free Water Filter Distribution

Published on November 25, 2024

 Onondaga County and the City of Syracuse are partnering to provide water filters free of charge to City of Syracuse households with pregnant women and children aged six and under routinely present. This initiative addresses concerns about the potential presence of lead in drinking water in some Syracuse homes due to lead service lines.

Filters will first become available to Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Program participants and qualifying residents during the Salvation Army Christmas Bureau Registration Days. More details will be announced about a partnership with the Syracuse City School District to distribute to all eligible households with children in pre-k programs through first grade beginning in December. Additional distributions will be made to child daycares, charter schools, and other caregivers who serve young children and infants.

“Providing safe and reliable drinking water is a top priority for both the County and the City,” said Ryan McMahon, Onondaga County Executive. “Filter distribution is being provided as an additional step in safeguarding  residents, particularly children and vulnerable populations pending final validation of updated water sampling results.”

Mayor Ben Walsh emphasized the City’s commitment to addressing the issue: “Our latest sampling shows Syracuse drinking water meets U.S. Environmental Protection Agency lead standards. Errors in sampling protocols from earlier in the year have created concerns, so we want to be sure vulnerable populations have access to water filters.”

Who is Eligible?
City of Syracuse households with children aged six and under who live there or visit often; pregnant residents; and/or other at-risk individuals.

What is Provided?
The program will provide a Brita Elite brand NSF-certified water filter and pitcher capable of removing lead, along with instructions for proper use and installation. One per eligible household.

How to Obtain a Filter?
Eligible residents can begin picking up water filters at the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Gifford Street location and Salvation Army Christmas Bureau Registration Days:

Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Program | 307 Gifford St, Syracuse, NY 13204

Monday, November 25: 12:00pm–7:00pm
Tuesday, November 26: 9:00am–5:00pm
Wednesday, November 27: 7:30am–12:00pm

Salvation Army Christmas Bureau Registration Days

Huntington Family Center | 405 Gifford St, Syracuse
Monday, December 2, 10am-4pm
Refugee Assistance Program (Bob’s School) | 516 Prospect Ave, Syracuse
Tuesday, December 3, 12pm-4pm
The Oncenter | 800 S. State Street, Syracuse
Monday, December 9, 10am-4pm
Tuesday December 10, 12pm-6pm
Wednesday, December 11, 10am-4pm

“Protecting public health is a shared responsibility,” said Dr. Kathryn Anderson, Onondaga County Health Commissioner. “Water filters are an effective tool for immediately reducing potential lead exposures from service lines. Another simple step residents can take is to let the tap run for one minute in the morning before using the water for drinking or cooking. Running the tap flushes the pipes and helps to reduce the amount of lead that may be in the water after sitting in the pipes overnight.”

For more information about the City of Syracuse water initiatives, visit syr.gov/Lead-Free-Syracuse.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Lead Free Syracuse
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready