Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / 2024/Mayor Walsh Appoints Robert Brandt to Commissioner of Water
Listen
Mayor Walsh Appoints Robert Brandt to Commissioner of Water

Published on October 07, 2024

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the appointment of Robert Brandt as commissioner of the Department of Water. As commissioner, Brant is responsible for maintaining and upgrading the city’s water infrastructure and overseeing direction of activities undertaken by the Department of Water, including duties related to formulating department policy and programs, budgeting and capital improvement.

“Rob has committed over 30 years of his life to serving the people of our city,” said Mayor Walsh. “He’s made a positive impact on the Water Department during the past year. He’s demonstrated excellent leadership abilities and a strong command of the Department’s operations and priorities. Rob’s dedication to public service, extensive knowledge of the Water Department and commitment to our City make him well suited to be commissioner.”

Most recently, Brandt served as the Interim Commissioner of Water. He oversaw the day-to-day operations and administrative policies within the Department of Water since June 2024. Previously, Brandt served as Deputy Commissioner of Water, and as the Assistant Superintendent of Street Cleaning/Snow and Ice in the Department of Public Works. In this role, he directed street cleaning, snow removal, and ice-clearing operations, prioritizing both the city's cleanliness and the safety of personnel. Brandt managed crews, ensuring the implementation of safety protocols and completion of tasks within public works operations.

Brandt served as a Regional Vice President for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Council 66 for the Syracuse and Central NY area. He holds certifications for both the Certified Excavator Program (CEP) from UDigNY and participation in the New York State Accident Review Committee. Brandt is a lifetime resident of the Washington Square neighborhood.

 

Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications Office
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready