Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/City and County Share Progress on Water Filter Distribution Program
Listen
City and County Share Progress on Water Filter Distribution Program

Published on November 27, 2024

Onondaga County and the City of Syracuse are pleased to share an update on the successful launch of the water filter distribution program to households with pregnant women and children six and under routinely present. The program was implemented to address concerns about the potential presence of lead in drinking water in some older Syracuse homes due to lead service lines.

Over the first three days, the program prioritized distribution to families enrolled in the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program to ensure immediate access for pregnant women and families with young children, who are most vulnerable to the effects of lead. Over 1,175 households received a filter in this initial stage of the program.

“We are thrilled with the strong participation we’ve seen in these first few days,” said Ryan McMahon, Onondaga County Executive. “By prioritizing families with the highest risk, we are ensuring that our youngest and most vulnerable residents are safeguarded.”

"We are meeting people where they are to ensure that eligible households have access to water filters as the latest sampling results are finalized,” said Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh. “I thank our partners at the Onondaga County Health Department for a successful first three days. We want to reach all eligible households, so we will continue collaborating with local organizations and the City School District to make distribution even more accessible."

Upcoming Distribution Events
The next phase of the program will expand to families who are eligible to register for the Salvation Army’s Christmas Bureau. In addition, those with children in Pre-K through first grade in the Syracuse City School District will receive a filter through their school.

Continued Focus on Equity and Accessibility
This program is part of a comprehensive strategy to address lead exposure across the city. Filters are being distributed as data from water sampling conducted in the second half of 2024 is finalized.

“Lead exposure can have serious and lasting impacts on a child’s health,” said Dr. Kathryn Anderson, Onondaga County Health Commissioner. “While local and national data re-enforce that lead dust and lead paint are the primary causes of child lead exposure, exposure to all possible sources should be minimized. For those with lead service lines and lead pipes, running your water and using a water filter can decrease household exposure to lead in water. The Health Department is proud to partner with the City to provide access to filters and health education around this important issue.”

For more information about the City of Syracuse water initiatives, visit https://www.syr.gov/Departments/Water/Lead-Free-Syracuse.

 

 

 

Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications Office
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready