Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / 2024/Mayor Walsh Appoints Robert Brandt to Deputy Commissioner of Water
Listen
Mayor Walsh Appoints Robert Brandt to Deputy Commissioner of Water

Published on February 09, 2024

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the appointment of Robert Brandt as Deputy Commissioner in the Department of Water. Brandt will work with the Commissioner of Water in program development, crafting department policies, and managing personnel. He will oversee the day-to-day operations and administrative policies within the Department of Water.


“Robert’s dedication and commitment to our residents is evident in his 30 years working for the city,” said Mayor Walsh. “His long public service and wealth of experience in the field make him the ideal candidate for the position.”


Brandt began his career in Sanitation within the Department of Public Works. Over the years, he undertook various roles throughout the city, including positions in Sewer and Water Maintenance. Most recently, Brandt served as the Assistant Superintendent of Street Cleaning/Snow and Ice in Public Works. In this role, he directed street cleaning, snow removal, and ice-clearing operations, prioritizing both the city's cleanliness and the safety of personnel. Brandt managed crews, ensuring the implementation of safety protocols and completion of tasks in public works operations.


Brandt served as a Regional Vice President for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Council 66 for the Syracuse and Central NY area. He holds certifications for both the Certified Excavator Program (CEP) from UDigNY and participation in the New York State Accident Review Committee. Brandt is a lifetime resident of the Washington Square neighborhood.

 

Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications Office
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready