Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / 2024/Fire and Water Department Warn: Opening Hydrants Risks Public Safety
Listen
Fire and Water Department Warn: Opening Hydrants Risks Public Safety

Published on June 18, 2024

At the start of a prolonged heat wave, the Syracuse Fire Department and Department of Water are warning against opening hydrants for relief from high temperatures. Fire Chief Michael Monds and Commissioner of Water Joseph Awald say open hydrants reduce water pressure which can limit the ability to fight fires and create dangerous conditions on city streets. Opening a hydrant is also a civil penalty which can be subject to fines of up to $500.

 

Chief Monds said, “open fire hydrants can affect our water supply and affect fire department operations in an emergency. When a fire occurs, being able to connect to the closest hydrant and know that we will have adequate pressure is crucial to putting the fire out. Additionally, open hydrants at streets and intersections can create dangerous situations for pedestrians and drivers.”

“I urge everyone to refrain from opening fire hydrants during hot weather events. When residents open hydrants without permission it affects the integrity of the pressure in the water system and could result in interrupted service for all,” Awald said. “It also wastes a significant amount of water and conservation is critical to ensuring a steady supply for all residents and emergency services alike.”

Residents are encouraged to stay cool and visit local pools or spray features; the list of open sites can be found on the Parks and Recreation webpage. For questions or to report open hydrants residents can contact the Department of Water at (315) 448-8360.  

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready