Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Walsh Issues Snow Safety Alert for Upcoming Winter Storm
Listen
Mayor Walsh Issues Snow Safety Alert for Upcoming Winter Storm

Published on December 04, 2024




With snow starting Wednesday evening into Friday morning, Mayor urges residents to prioritize safe travel, follow parking requirements and clear snow from sidewalks and fire hydrants.

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh has issued a snow safety alert beginning on Wednesday evening in Syracuse, providing key reminders about plowing, sidewalk snow removal and traffic safety. A Winter Storm Warning is in effect until early morning of Friday, December 6, 2024.

"The timing of this winter storm will pose challenges for clearing roads ahead of Thursday morning’s commute. Rest assured; our crews will work tirelessly to ensure safe travels. Residents can assist by following parking restrictions and keeping their sidewalks clear,” said Mayor Walsh.

The City’s Snow Safety Alert advises drivers to be prepared for hazardous road conditions; reminds residents to obey odd-even parking regulations; and urges property owners to clear their sidewalks and around fire hydrants. Information on snow safety in the City of Syracuse is available at syr.gov/winter. Residents are encouraged to use the City’s live Snow Plow Map on the Snow Safety page and follow @SYRCityline on social media to gauge real-time road conditions throughout the event to make informed decisions before venturing into snowy conditions.

What Residents Should Know

Plows prioritize clearing primary and service roads to ensure accessibility for emergency services, focusing on high-volume roadways, emergency routes, hills, and major destinations. Neighborhood side streets are plowed once major routes are clear and snowfall has subsided. In Central New York, city, county, and state agencies work together to maintain highways and service roads. For more information before venturing into snowy weather, residents can visit syr.gov/winter.

What Residents Should Do

Property owners should clear snow from sidewalks on their properties and around fire hydrants. Keeping sidewalks as clear as possible during and after the storm helps to keep pedestrians from walking in roads with vehicle traffic. The Syracuse Fire Department asks residents to clear a three-foot area around and a path to fire hydrants near their property. The City will continue the Sidewalk Snow Removal program this year. Residents can view and download the map of sidewalks that will be cleared by the City in the Sidewalk Snow Removal section of the Snow Safety page. Even in these areas, residents are still responsible for keeping their sidewalks clear.

Residents should observe alternate side parking rules and park cars off-street whenever possible. DPW plows need to be able to access streets to clear them. Syracuse Police will be ticketing and towing vehicles that are illegally parked.

 

The City has identified priority streets for focused parking enforcement during snow events. These streets were selected using city data, including the percentage of multi-family dwellings, the width of the street, and other elements contributing to increases in on-street parking. The list also includes streets known to be problem points for plow drivers. 

Residents are advised that seasonal odd-even parking restrictions will be enforced on certain downtown blocks as well. The City has posted signage marking the parking changes and listing the hours for alternate parking. Restrictions are in place in the following areas:

100 & 200 blocks Erie Blvd. E.

100 & 200 blocks E. Water St.

100 & 200 blocks S. Warren St.

300 & 400 blocks S. Warren St.

300 block of Montgomery St.

100 & 200 blocks Madison St.

100 & 200 blocks E. Jefferson St.

100 block W. Jefferson St.

Registered vehicle owners found in violation of the restrictions will be subject to ticketing and towing. For more information on downtown parking options, including options for overnight parking, please see the Downtown Parking brochure or contact the Downtown Committee at (315) 422-8284 or mail@downtownsyracuse.com.

City residents with further questions or snow related concerns and requests can submit requests to Cityline using the SYRCityline app or by calling 315-448-8360. Residents can also follow @SYRCityline on social media for updates. For all emergencies, the public should call 9-1-1.

 

Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications Office
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Winter in Syracuse
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready