Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / 2024/Water Department Public Meeting for Westminster Avenue Area Neighbors
Listen
Water Department Public Meeting for Westminster Avenue Area Neighbors

Published on June 18, 2024

The City of Syracuse Department of Water will host a public information meeting about the Westminster Pump Station project, which includes the replacement of water mains and water services to some homes in the Westminster Avenue area.

The meeting will take place on Wednesday, June 26 at Westcott Community Center (826 Euclid Ave, Syracuse, NY 13210) from 6:00 to 7:00 pm. The meeting will provide an opportunity for residents to learn about the project’s scope, timeline, and potential impacts on properties. 

The project area includes about 50 homes in the Westcott area. It is along Westminster Avenue, including small sections of Maryland Avenue and Kensington Road. Water service lines containing lead components will be replaced at no cost to the property owner.

This project is part of the Water Department’s long-term infrastructure plan which includes replacing pump stations and surrounding infrastructure, including water service lines containing lead, in neighborhoods around the City. The work protects water quality and maintains safe water pressure for customer use and fire protection.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready