Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / 2024/Water Crews Working to Repair Water Main Leak on West Street
Listen
Water Crews Working to Repair Water Main Leak on West Street

Published on August 27, 2024

The City of Syracuse Department of Water is working to repair a leak on a water main transmission line in the southbound lanes of West Street between Erie Boulevard and West Fayette Street. Households and businesses in the area may experience water service disruptions. Crews are actively working to maintain water services to the area while addressing repairs. Drivers may experience traffic delays between the 690 East off ramp and West Fayette Street. The Erie Boulevard exit off West Street will be closed off to all vehicle traffic until repair work is completed. Sidewalks remain open and traffic detours are in place. Residents and businesses with questions or concerns can contact the Department of Water at (315) 448-8360.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready