Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / City Releases Sampling Results That Show Water Meets EPA Lead Standard
Listen
City Releases Sampling Results That Show Water Meets EPA Lead Standard

Published on November 22, 2024

The City of Syracuse today released water sampling results from the second half of 2024 that show Syracuse drinking water meets U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) lead standards. The data, submitted to state and county regulators earlier this week, is supported by resident attestations to verify the sampling protocol followed. 

Under EPA public drinking water requirements, self-administered samples were taken at 131 homes with lead service lines between August and October of 2024. The 90th percentile results, analyzed by an independent testing laboratory, came in at 12 parts per billion, under the EPA lead action level of 15 parts per billion. Only five properties exceeded EPA guidance.  

Syracuse’s water supply is sourced from Skaneateles Lake. The water leaving Skaneateles Lake and traveling through water mains is free of lead. However, lead is sometimes present in pipes connecting older homes to the water system or in fixtures and home plumbing. The Syracuse Water Department adds a safe substance called orthophosphate to the water. This substance is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for safe consumption. It forms a protective coating inside lead pipes, reducing lead from leaching into the water. 

Public water systems across the nation are required to test tap water from homes and buildings likely to have plumbing that contains lead. The EPA lead action level is a measure of the effectiveness of lead control treatment. The latest Syracuse test results show the corrosion control program is working. Under current EPA requirements, water sampling will be repeated every six months.  

In sampling at homes with lead service lines in the first half of 2024, 27 of 104 properties exceeded the EPA lead action level. Those samples were outliers from sampling conducted over the past ten years. The City later determined proper sampling protocols were not followed by employees which may explain the elevated lead levels found. Two Water Department employees have been placed on administrative leave pending further investigation.

Service Line Replacements 

The City is moving forward with lead service line replacements on an accelerated basis that surpasses EPA guidelines. In the next year, the City will replace more than 3,000 lines. At approximately 2,700 homes citywide, the City will replace the private lead services at homes where only the public infrastructure was changed previously. That work often occurred about two decades ago under prior EPA requirements that did not require cities change the private portion of lead service lines.   

The citywide work will include areas with the highest concentrations of older homes that are prone to lead infrastructure. These projects will be planned utilizing the City’s Equity Score. The model is based on seven factors, primarily focusing on income and race. Other considerations include the elderly, single-parent households, residents with disabilities, low educational attainment, and rent-burdened households. Hundreds of service lines will also be replaced in homes near major water infrastructure projects on the eastside and in Eastwood. 

Future replacements will be prioritized based on the completion of the citywide inventory, with the goal of maintaining or accelerating the current replacement pace. A phased approach will be communicated to residents, providing timelines on when residents can expect their service to be replaced. At the current pace, the City expects to eliminate all of the more than 14,000 lead services in about five years – half the time required by the EPA. 

Service Line Inventory 

In October 2024, the Department of Water released a citywide water service line inventory in accordance with EPA regulations. The citywide inventory catalogues the materials used and informs the department of necessary replacement areas. Residents can search their address to find the type of service connected to their home at syr.gov/lead-free-Syracuse. The City has sent letters to all homes detailing the material of their service lines based on inventory findings. The letter also includes information on reducing lead exposure and how residents can determine the service line material at their property, if it is unknown.

Water Filters 

Out of abundance of caution while sampling data is finalized through the end of 2024, the City and the Onondaga County Health Department will make free water filters available for households with children six and under, pregnant women, and other at-risk individuals. With the assistance of the Syracuse City School District, filters will be distributed to all eligible households with children in pre-k programs through first grade. Additional distributions will be made through the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program, child daycares, charter schools and other caregivers who serve young children and infants. Eligible households can request a filter or get information on participating in future water sampling by calling the Department of Water at 315-448-8354. 

Reducing Lead Exposure

To reduce lead exposure, run your water for at least 30 seconds if it hasn’t been used for several hours, until it reaches a steady, cold temperature. Always use cold water for cooking and preparing baby formula, and never boil water to remove lead. If using a water filter, ensure it is certified to remove lead and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for proper use and maintenance. For more information, visit the Onondaga County Health Department Lead Poisoning Prevention website at ongov.net/health/lead/ or call 315-435-3271.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Lead Free Syracuse
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready