Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / 2024/Mayor Walsh Announces the Return of Full Fleet of Veo
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces the Return of Full Fleet of Veo

Published on March 15, 2024

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the annual return of the  Veo micromobility program to the City of Syracuse. Following a planned fleet reduction during the winter months, Veo will return its fleet to full capacity to provide residents with convenient, affordable, and sustainable transportation options for navigating the city.

The program experienced steady growth during the 2023 season, totaling 433,300 rides, which is equivalent to approximately 700,000 miles ridden. With nearly 1,000 available units of scooters and E-Bikes across the City, the highest number of rides in a single day surpassed 3,500.

“With the arrival of spring, our residents are enthusiastic and eager to venture out,” said Mayor Walsh. “Since its inception in 2021, the micromobility program has steadily grown, offering essential mobility choices for Syracuse residents without access to a vehicle. The Veo fleet in the City of Syracuse is not just an enjoyable means of navigating the city; it is also addressing a crucial transportation need.”

"Syracuse's shared mobility program is putting sustainable transportation on the fast track, with shared scooters and bikes replacing more than 100,000 car trips annually,” said Candice Xie, co-founder and CEO of Veo. "Ridership is thriving, especially at locations where the City has installed bike lanes, highlighting the positive impact of the City’s investment in transportation infrastructure. Veo remains committed to meeting the evolving needs of Syracuse, ensuring that residents and visitors alike have access to convenient and sustainable travel options."

To learn more about the Veo micromobility program, get familiar with the rules of the road, or find out if you’re eligible for discounted rates, visit veoride.com/syracuse. Residents with questions should call the number on the bike or scooter (855-VEO-2256) or email hello@veoride.com. Syracuse residents can also directly email syrops@veoride.com with any questions or concerns.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready