Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2024 / Mayor Walsh Announces DPW to Begin Overnight Leaf and Snow Removal
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces DPW to Begin Overnight Leaf and Snow Removal

Published on November 01, 2024

DPW urges residents to bag leaves and keep them off roads.

 

The transition from fall to winter in the City of Syracuse is approaching. Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the Department of Public Works will launch its overnight shift for the late fall and winter months beginning on the night of Sunday, Nov. 3. Crews who are on duty to plow streets in the event of early morning snowfall will be deployed to pick up leaves on city streets. 

 

“Syracuse can experience a wide range of weather conditions during this time of year. Based on our experience, it's crucial for our Department of Public Works to be ready for early morning snowstorms, making overnight staffing essential,” said Mayor Walsh. “On days without snow, it’s an effective use of City resources to have those crews assist with our leaf collection efforts.”

 

The City provides leaf pickup as a service to residents in the months of November and December. It occurs during both the daytime and overnight. Leaf pick-up vehicles can be disruptive; they are equipped with audible beeps for safety and some units can create scraping and banging noises when picking up loose leaves and branches. 

 

“We apologize for the overnight disruptions caused by our leaf collection crews. We appreciate residents' patience as we work to clear all the leaves before they lead to fall and winter flooding or hinder our snowplows. Using bags for leaves enables our crews to collect them quickly and quietly, without the need for repeated vehicle maneuvers to gather loose leaves,” said Jeremy Robinson, Commissioner of Public Works.

 

Residents are urged to place all leaves in paper bags and to never put leaves in the roadway. Leaves must be placed between the sidewalk and curb and must be separated from all other waste. Leaves cannot block fire hydrants, poles, trees, vents or catch basins.

 

“One of the primary contributors to flooding in the fall and winter is leaves placed in the roadway,” said Commissioner Robinson. “They block catch basins, fill our underground sewer mains, restrict water flow, and can lead to sewer backups in some properties.”

 

Residents can also use the City of Syracuse yard waste drop-off site located at 1200 Canal Street Extension. The site is on the access road to the DPW complex, accessible from South Midler Avenue between Interstate 690 and Erie Boulevard. Residents can drop off brush, branches, and leaves. Plastic bags are not permitted. The drop-off site operates from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready