Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / 2024/DPW Announces End of Blue Bin Distribution for Recycling in the City
Listen
DPW Announces End of Blue Bin Distribution for Recycling in the City

Published on September 03, 2024

The Syracuse Department of Public Works (DPW) announced replacement blue bins are no longer available in the City of Syracuse. The end of the program in the city comes in alignment with Onondaga County Resource Recovery Agency’s (OCRRA) discontinuation of distributing new blue bins throughout Onondaga County.

To replace blue bins, DPW will distribute new 96-gallon covered recycling carts to residents, with delivery starting October 7 through October 19. The new recycling collection system builds on trash carts implemented in 2023 and will further improve service to residents, create safer conditions for sanitation works, and reduce litter. Recycling carts have also been shown to reduce trash disposal by increasing participation in recycling. City households will receive more information about recycling cart distribution in in the coming weeks.

Until new carts arrive, residents who don’t have a blue bin are advised to use alternative methods for recycling. Options include:

Using a box for recyclables, which will be collected with regular recycling but not returned
Repurposing existing reusable containers (i.e. trash can, plastic tote) with the OCRRA-provided recycling decal. These decals can be obtained by calling Cityline at (315)448-CITY (2489).

Residents can find additional information about the new recycling carts and interim recycling options by visiting the City’s website at syr.gov/carts or by calling Cityline at (315)448-CITY (2489). 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready