Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Mayor Announces Public Meetings for Phase 3 of Creekwalk Extension
Listen
Mayor Announces Public Meetings for Phase 3 of Creekwalk Extension

Published on May 07, 2025

Syracuse Mayor Walsh announced two public meetings to gather community input on Phase Three of the Creekwalk Extension project. The first meeting will be held on Tuesday, May 13 at the Southwest Community Center (401 South Ave Lobby, Syracuse, NY 13204) at 6 p.m. The second meeting will be on Thursday, May 15 at the Cecile Community Center (174 W Seneca Turnpike, Second Floor, Syracuse, NY 13205) at 6 p.m.

"The Onondaga Creekwalk extension represents our commitment to creating connected, accessible, and vibrant public spaces throughout Syracuse," said Mayor Walsh. "By expanding this trail network to our Southside and Valley neighborhoods, we are not just building infrastructure, we are strengthening community connections, promoting active transportation options, and enhancing quality of life for residents. I encourage everyone to participate in these public meetings and help shape this important project."

The meetings will have a brief presentation followed by discussion at mapping stations where residents can view preliminary route alternatives, review the project schedule, and share their feedback.

The project is starting preliminary design to extend the existing Onondaga Creekwalk pedestrian/bicycle trail from West Colvin Street south three miles to Dorwin Avenue. The existing Creekwalk starts at the shore of Onondaga Lake near Destiny USA and runs 4.8 miles through Downtown and continues south to West Colvin Street. The goal of this project is to provide a pedestrian and bicycle north/south route along the Onondaga Creek Corridor to access many City neighborhoods and destinations safely.

For information and to provide online comments, visit goto.syr.gov/Creekwalk-Phase3.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready