Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Water Crews Working to Repair Multiple Water Main Breaks
Listen
Water Crews Working to Repair Multiple Water Main Breaks

Published on January 28, 2025

The City of Syracuse Department of Water is working to repair multiple water main breaks in the city. Temperatures in the past 48 hours have created conditions conducive to breaks. Crews are actively working on the following breaks:
100 block of South Franklin Street from West Washington Street to Erie Boulevard West.
200 block of West Water Street from South Franklin Street to South Clinton Street.   
1400 block of Jamesville Avenue from Butler Street to Comstock Avenue.
2000 block of Onondaga Creek Boulevard intersection with Medora Place.
Investigating a possible main break at Seventh North Street and Hiawatha Boulevard area.  

Vehicle traffic will be rerouted until repair work is completed. Households and businesses in the area may experience water service disruptions and pressure issues. Residents and businesses with questions or concerns can contact the Department of Water at 315-448-8360.  

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready