Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Mayor Walsh Announces Opening of Kirk Park Canoe and Kayak Launch
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces Opening of Kirk Park Canoe and Kayak Launch

Published on May 21, 2025

Syracuse Mayor Walsh announced the opening of the Kirk Park Canoe and Kayak Boat Launch at a ribbon cutting ceremony on May 21. The launch is located at the end of the Creekwalk near Hunt Avenue and will serve as one of three vital access points for water enthusiasts, providing opportunities for kayaking and canoeing on Onondaga Creek. 

The project, completed by the Department of Engineering, involved significant upgrades to the overlook including the construction of an American Disability Act (ADA) compliant launch ramp and enhanced safety features like the installation of updated safety rails, lockable gate, and signage for improved visibility and security. The launch project also encompasses a stilling basin designed to provide safe entry and exit from the Creek. 

"We are committed to enhancing outdoor recreational opportunities throughout Syracuse," said Mayor Walsh. "The Kirk Park Boat Launch not only increases access to our waterways but also highlights the natural beauty of Onondaga Creek as a valuable community resource." 

The launch is part of the city's ongoing efforts to develop and improve outdoor recreational spaces and connect residents with Syracuse's natural resources. It complements existing paddling access points along the Creek, creating a more comprehensive network for water recreation. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready