Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / City to Host Open House for Kirk Park Pedestrian Bridge Project
Listen
City to Host Open House for Kirk Park Pedestrian Bridge Project

Published on February 05, 2025

Public input will be accepted until February 28

The City of Syracuse Department of Engineering will host a public meeting to gather community feedback about the Kirk Park Pedestrian Bridge Project. The meeting takes place on Tuesday, February 11 from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Kirk Park Community Center.

This project will replace the outdated pedestrian bridge over Onondaga Creek which links the Creekwalk on the west side of Onondaga Creek with Kirk Park on the east side. A new structure will enhance functionality, safety, and connectivity, to better serve the community’s needs.

At the public meeting, the city’s engineering consultant will present the project, and attendees will have the opportunity to ask questions and provide feedback on the project design. Residents who are unable to attend can also submit their feedback online at goto.syr.gov/Kirk-Park-Ped-Bridge

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready