Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Department of Water Working to Increase Water Pressure Overnight
Listen
Department of Water Working to Increase Water Pressure Overnight

Published on March 16, 2025

The City of Syracuse Department of Water is responding to low pressure affecting multiple parts of the city. The Department is working to address a combination of factors impacting pressure: increasing supply from Skaneateles Lake, restarting two water pumps on the Eastside that were shutdown by power outages; and increasing supply in reservoirs which have been lowered due to a high number of water main breaks this year, including a significant break today on the city’s north side. The Department anticipates that pressure will improve overnight in preparation for increased usage in the morning. Residents and businesses with questions or concerns can contact the Department of Water at 315-448-8360.
 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready