Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Mayor Walsh Announces Elmwood Park Sediment Removal Project
Listen
Mayor Walsh Announces Elmwood Park Sediment Removal Project

Published on May 29, 2025

City of Syracuse Mayor Walsh announced that sediment removal will begin in Elmwood Park, 600 Craddock Street, 13207, starting on June 2, 2025. The goal of the project is to return the brook to its state prior to the impact of flooding from Tropical Storm Fred in August 2021. Restoration efforts include sediment removal, repair of the channel walls, and the restoration of park turf. 

Key Project Details: 

Dates of Work: June 2025 to October 2025 
Park Location Impacted: From Wellesley Rd. to the Weir Rack (dam) next to the baseball field. 
Impact: The park will be closed to the public for the duration of construction.
Purpose: To restore the Brook channel to pre-disaster condition returning the water flow and volume and direction to its intended design.
What to expect: Noise during construction hours. Construction vehicles will create moderate congestion on Glenwood Avenue. 

“We are committed to improving the environmental health of Furnace Brook," said Mayor Walsh. "This dredging project is crucial for restoring the natural flow of the brook to maintain its beauty and ecological significance in Elmwood Park. We appreciate everyone's patience as the work begins." 

Furnace Brook, a stream originating in Onondaga Hill, flows through Elmwood Park's cascading waterfalls before joining Onondaga Creek. Annually restocked with trout by Onondaga County Parks' Carpenter's Brook Fish Hatchery, construction is limited to May-October to protect spawning. After severe tropical storm damage to both the Brook and Elmwood Park, restoration work is now underway through grants from FEMA and NYS Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Services. For more information about the project visit goto.syr.gov/2025-Elmwood-Project.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready