Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/City of Syracuse Shares School Zone Traffic Safety Warning Data
Listen
City of Syracuse Shares School Zone Traffic Safety Warning Data

Published on October 02, 2025

City Of Syracuse Reports More Than 60,000 Warnings In First Two Weeks Of Red Light And Speed Camera Program

Mayor Walsh says Syracuse schools are facing a speeding epidemic

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The City of Syracuse released data from the first two weeks of its red light and speed camera School Zone Traffic Enforcement Program. The data revealed that more than 60,000 warnings were recorded around schools in the city during the first two weeks of the 60-day warning period.

The program, which was launched on the first day of school, uses automated enforcement cameras to monitor traffic in and around school zones for speed and running of red lights. The new automated enforcement tools are part of the City’s ongoing Vision Zero commitment to improving traffic safety and protecting students as they travel to and from school.

Key Findings from the First Two Weeks:

Approximately 60,380 total warnings were recorded in and around school zones as of September 30.
Approximately 59,950 speeding warnings
Approximately 430 red light warnings
The highest recorded speed was 78-mph in a 25-mph zone, nearly 53 mph over the posted limit. 31% violations were over 15 miles over the speed limit.
The top five locations with the highest number of speed warnings were:
307 S Geddes St  
1618 James St 
3110-3160 James St 
400 Brighton Ave
4922 S Salina St 

“This data underscores the urgent need for this program,” said Mayor Walsh. “Syracuse schools are facing a speeding epidemic. We are seeing a concerning number of drivers exceeding the speed limit, running red lights and passing school buses where children are present. These are only warnings, so drivers have another month to change their driving behavior. So many things are out of our control, but safe driving is not one of them. We can lower these incidents to make our children, families and school staff safer.”

“Our school communities experience the challenges of speeding and inattentive drivers so we can all do better. Slowing down near our schools isn’t just about following the law, it’s about protecting our students, families, and staff every single day,” said Superintendent Davis.

“The goal of this program is to change behavior and improve pedestrian safety around our schools; not to simply issue tickets”, said Chief of Police, Joe Cecile. “This large number of warning tickets in just the first two weeks proves we all have some work to do. So please slow down in the school zones and give our students one less thing to worry about.”

The City instituted a 60-day grace period to raise public awareness and encourage safe driving habits before full enforcement begins. Starting November 2, the program will move into full enforcement mode, and citations will include monetary fines.

Once the warning period ends, drivers caught speeding or running red lights in school zones will receive a $50 fine per violation. The fine amount is set by New York State. A $25 late penalty will be added for unpaid fines. Citations will be mailed to the vehicle owner, and signage will be posted in all enforcement areas to alert drivers of camera use.

In addition to speed and red-light enforcement, the third component of the City’s school traffic enforcement initiative, the School Bus Stop-Arm Camera Program, which has been active since April 3, has recorded 1,200 violations to date, highlighting the ongoing need for driver awareness and compliance around school buses.

The City encourages all drivers to slow down, stay alert, and help protect students as they travel to and from school.

For more information, including enforcement locations and FAQs, visit syr.gov/SZTE.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Syracuse Police News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready