Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor and Superintendent Announce Public Meetings on Phase III of JSCB
Listen
Mayor and Superintendent Announce Public Meetings on Phase III of JSCB

Published on June 03, 2025

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh and Syracuse City School District Superintendent Anthony Davis announced upcoming public meetings to learn about the Third Phase of the Joint Schools Construction Board (JSCB) project and share feedback for the Comprehensive Plan.

These community sessions will provide residents with the opportunity to learn about planned facility improvements, ask questions to district and city officials, and contribute their thoughts and perspectives on the planning process. Phase III of the JSCB Comprehensive Plan encompasses ten SCSD schools: Webster, Lincoln, Henninger, Nottingham, Blodgett, Seymour, Delaware, Corcoran, Roberts and Syracuse Latin.

Meeting Schedule

In-Person Sessions:

Tuesday, June 3, 2025 | 6:00 PM
Corcoran High School Auditorium

Thursday, June 5, 2025 | 6:00 PM
Seymour Dual Language Academy Cafeteria

	

Virtual Session:

Tuesday, June 10, 2025
Details and registration information available atgoto.syr.gov/JSCB.

 

"Community input is essential to creating educational facilities that truly serve our students and families," said Mayor Walsh. "These meetings provide an important opportunity for Syracuse residents to learn about our plans and help shape the future of our schools."

“I’m excited to join Mayor Walsh in inviting our community to upcoming public meetings on Phase III of the Joint Schools Construction Project” said Superintendent Davis. “These sessions are a chance for families, staff, and neighbors to learn about major school improvements and help shape the future of education in Syracuse together.”

Community members who cannot attend the meetings can also submit comments to jscb@syr.gov.

 

Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications Office
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Mayor Walsh Veto Message(PDF, 231KB)
Administration Memo(PDF, 14MB)
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready