Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Mayor Announces Completion of Phase 1 of Creekwalk Security Cameras
Listen
Mayor Announces Completion of Phase 1 of Creekwalk Security Cameras

Published on June 05, 2025

 Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced the completion of Phase One of the Creekwalk Security Camera Initiative, aimed at enhancing safety and security along the Creekwalk trail. 20 new security cameras are now operating at strategic locations along the pathway stretching from Onondaga Lake to Downtown Syracuse.

The cameras are mounted on existing light poles utilizing available power sources. The Syracuse Police Department will oversee operation and monitoring of the cameras.

“Our primary goal is to increase safety along the Creekwalk,” said Mayor Walsh. “Security cameras will serve as both a deterrent to unlawful activities and a vital resource for law enforcement, providing valuable video documentation when necessary.”

Key camera locations include the newly established Inner Harbor kayak launch and three locations in close proximity to the Inner Harbor Amphitheater. The locations maximize visibility and coverage, ensuring that high-traffic areas are monitored effectively.

The Creekwalk Security Camera Project is part of an overall effort to create a safer and more enjoyable experience for all users of the trail.  A security camera network was previously implemented along the Creekwalk Phase Two corridor between Downtown and Colvin Street. The planned Creekwalk Phase Three extension, which will connect Colvin Street to Dorwin Avenue, will also incorporate security camera infrastructure.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready