Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Water Department Reports 1st Half 2025 Sampling Meet EPA Lead Standard
Listen
Water Department Reports 1st Half 2025 Sampling Meet EPA Lead Standard

Published on July 10, 2025

The City of Syracuse Department of Water released first half 2025 water sampling results that show Syracuse drinking water meets U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards for the second straight reporting period. The samples, collected by a third-party contractor and analyzed by an independent laboratory, were presented to New York State and Onondaga County health regulators Wednesday. 

Under EPA public drinking water requirements, 121 samples were taken from homes with lead service lines in May and June of 2025. The 90th percentile results came in at 9 parts per billion (ppb), under the current EPA lead action level of 15 ppb. The findings are also below the EPA’s new more stringent requirement of 10 ppb to be implemented in 2027.  

To conduct the first half of 2025 sampling, the City hired 120Water, an independent contractor for public water systems with specialized expertise in administering water sampling. 120Water mailed sampling kits with instructions to a database of participating properties. The locations were developed in close collaboration with state and county regulators.  

Consistent with EPA guidance, residents of participating properties collected tap water from kitchen or bathroom sinks and returned the samples directly to the testing laboratory by mail. 120Water sent results to participants, and the testing laboratory reported all data to the City.   

“We have consistently improved our water sampling methods during the past year. These new results reaffirm that people can have confidence in Syracuse water. When samples are collected properly, our drinking water meets the standards set by EPA,” said Robert Brandt, commissioner of water. 

Syracuse’s water supply is sourced from Skaneateles Lake. The water leaving Skaneateles Lake and traveling through water mains is free of lead. However, lead is sometimes present in pipes connecting older homes to the water system or in fixtures and home plumbing. The Syracuse Water Department adds a safe substance called orthophosphate to the water. This substance is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for safe consumption. It forms a protective coating inside lead pipes, reducing lead from leaching into the water.  

Public water systems across the nation are required to test tap water from homes and buildings likely to have plumbing that contains lead. The EPA lead action level is a measure of the effectiveness of lead control treatment. The latest Syracuse test results show the corrosion control program is working. Under current EPA requirements, water sampling will be repeated every six months.  

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready