Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Department of Water to Begin Mosley Pump Station Project Sep. 2
Listen
Department of Water to Begin Mosley Pump Station Project Sep. 2

Published on August 29, 2025

 

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – The City of Syracuse Department of Water will begin the Mosley Pump Station replacement project on Tuesday, Sept. 2. Work will begin near the intersection of Forest Hill Drive and James Street and will continue to move south on Forest Hill Drive.  
The project is part of the Water Department’s long-term infrastructure management plan which includes replacing pump stations and surrounding infrastructure, including water service lines containing lead, in neighborhoods around the city.  The project also includes the replacement of water mains and water services to about 120 homes with lead service lines in the Eastwood area. 
Forest Hill Drive and James Street will experience partial closures throughout the construction until the project is complete. Sidewalks remain open and traffic detours will be in place. Residents in the area should not experience water service disruptions.  
Residents can contact the Department of Water at 315-448-8360 for more information.   

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready