Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Announces Syracuse Wins Award for Trash & Recycling Education
Listen
Mayor Announces Syracuse Wins Award for Trash & Recycling Education

Published on April 07, 2025

 Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh announced that Syracuse has been awarded the Citibot Premier Community Award in recognition of its approach to public education of the trash and recycling cart roll out. The award recognizes municipalities and local government professionals for outstanding achievements in fostering resident engagement and community development.

Through a series of initiatives, including the introduction of standardized trash and recycling carts, optimized waste collection routes, and advanced enforcement technology, Syracuse has dramatically improved the efficiency of its waste management operations. The city's efforts have resulted in a 99.98% compliance rate, marking a significant achievement in both public education and service efficiency. The city's strong commitment to community engagement included targeted social media campaigns, press releases, and direct mailers to residents, which played a pivotal role in ensuring widespread public adoption of the new system.

 “Public engagement was key to the successful rollout of the trash and recycling carts, as it ensured residents were informed and prepared for the transitions ahead,” said Mayor Walsh. “By fostering collaboration between city officials and residents, Syracuse has set a powerful example of how effective communication and innovation can lead to lasting improvements in municipal services”.

This award serves as an important recognition of Syracuse's ongoing efforts to improve the quality of life for its residents and build a more connected, informed community.

 

 

Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications Office
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready