Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Parks & Recreation Press Releases/City of Syracuse Releases 2025 Outdoor Pool Schedule
Listen
City of Syracuse Releases 2025 Outdoor Pool Schedule

Published on June 18, 2025

The City of Syracuse Department of Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs announced it will open outdoor pools on a rolling basis beginning on Wednesday, June 18. All pools are scheduled to be open by the end of June and will remain open through mid-August, weather permitting.

Pool opening dates for the summer are:

Wednesday, June 18: Upper Onondaga Park Pool
Friday June 20: Kirk Park Pool
Saturday, June 21: McKinley Park Pool
Sunday, June 22: Burnet Park Pool
Sunday, June 22: Lincoln Park Pool
Monday, June 23: Wilson Park Pool
Pool opening dates for Schiller Park and Thornden Park will be announced at a later date. Changes or updates to pool opening schedules will be posted at syracuse.recdesk.com.

From June 18 until June 25, while school is still in session, pools will operate from 3 to 6 p.m. on weekdays, 12 to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, and 1 to 6 p.m. on Sundays.

Beginning Monday June 30, the pools will operate Monday – Saturday from 12 to 7 p.m. and Sundays from 1 to 7 p.m. All pool hours are subject to change throughout the summer based on staffing and pool needs and maintenance requirements.

Admission to open swim is free of charge for everyone. The pools will operate on a first-come, first-serve system when pool capacities are reached.

Children under the minimum height requirement must be with a parent or responsible adult over 18 years old. A maximum of three children per adult are allowed. The accompanying adult must be always in the water within an arms-reach of children, even when a child is wearing a U.S. Coast Guard approved flotation device. A deep-water swim test must be taken and passed upon each entry. To view the full list of pool rules and acceptable swimwear visit syr.gov/poolrules.

Lap Swimming

A designated lap lane is available, free of charge, at all outdoor pools during all open swim hours. The Morning Lap Swim program will be offered daily at Burnet, Schiller and Thornden pools, beginning Monday, June 30 from 6:30 to 8:45 a.m. for $3 per session.

Swim Lessons

Summer Sessions consist of 30-minute morning classes that meet daily, Monday – Friday for two weeks (10 total classes) at Burnet, Onondaga, Schiller, and Thornden pools. Registration will open on syracuse.recdesk.com for session I on Thursday, June 26 at 4 p.m. for city residents and Friday, June 27 at 4 p.m. for nonresidents. (note: Schiller will offer lessons during Sessions II and III)

Session I: Monday – Friday, June 30 – July 11
Session II: Monday – Friday, July 14 – July 25
Session III: Monday – Friday, July 8 – August 8

Swim Team

Swim team returns to City Pools this Summer! Join the squad at either Thornden, Schiller, Onondaga or Burnet pools. Swim team meets daily Monday – Friday for 6 weeks, beginning June 30, at your home pool for practices and skill building with our coaches. Participants will compete in regular Meets with other city Swim Teams, including the All City Swim Meet in August.  Grab your friends and join the team!  Ages 8 to 15.  Register online at syracuse.recdesk.com.

Aquathon Events

Youth between the ages of 3 to 15 can sign up to take part in up to five Aquathon events. Events are free of charge. The Aquathon events combine swimming and running into a fun, untimed sporting event at five city parks. Events take place on Sundays, beginning July 13. Learn more and register at syracuse.recdesk.com.

Aquathon dates:

Sunday, July 13: Thornden Park
Sunday, July 20: Schiller Park
Sunday, July 27: Kirk Park
Sunday, August 3: Upper Onondaga Park
Sunday, August 10: Burnet Park

For pool closings and cancellations, visit the CANCELLATION page at syracuse.recdesk.com.

For more information, email blopes@syr.gov, jayalya@syr.gov or csoukup@syr.gov.

 

 

Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications Office
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Syracuse Parks & Recreation News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready