Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / Traffic Advisory Citrus in the City
Listen
Traffic Advisory Citrus in the City

Published on August 20, 2025

Syracuse University will be hosting its annual ‘Citrus in the City’ event as a part of the University’s freshman orientation at Clinton Square on Saturday, August 23.

To facilitate the setup, presentation, and breakdown of these events, the following street closure will take place according to the schedule outlined below, with NO PARKING permitted.

Erie Boulevard West, between S. Clinton and S. Franklin Streets:

From 8:00 am on Saturday, August 23, through early morning on Sunday, August 24.

S. Clinton Street, from W. Genesee to W. Washington Streets:

From 8:00 am on Saturday, August 23, through early morning on Sunday, August 24.

The following streets will be converted to a temporary two-way street for the duration of the event.

200 Block of West Water Street, between S. Clinton and S. Franklin Streets:

From 8:00 am on Saturday, August 23, through early morning on Sunday, August 24. No parking will be permitted on the north curb line, along the Amos Building.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready