Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/ 2025 / DPW to Convert Traffic Signals at Two Intersections to Flashing Lights
Listen
DPW to Convert Traffic Signals at Two Intersections to Flashing Lights

Published on October 29, 2025

The City of Syracuse Department of Public Works (DPW) will adjust the traffic signals at two intersections: S. Geddes & W. Onondaga Street and Grant Boulevard & Lemoyne Avenue beginning Saturday, Nov. 1 through April 1. 

On S. Geddes & W. Onondaga Street  
On S. Geddes Street, drivers traveling northbound and southbound will observe a flashing yellow light. This indicates that drivers should slow down and proceed with caution. 

On W. Onondaga Street, vehicles traveling eastbound and westbound will observe a flashing red light. Drivers must come to a complete stop at the intersection, similar to a stop sign, and proceed after yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrians or other vehicles. 

Grant Boulevard & Lemoyne Avenue  
On Grant Boulevard, drivers will observe a change from a standard three-color light to a flashing yellow light. This indicates that drivers should slow down and proceed with caution. 

On Lemoyne Ave, drivers will observe a change to a flashing red light. Drivers must come to a complete stop at the intersection, similar to a stop sign, and proceed after yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrians or other vehicles. 

This scheduled changeover occurs twice a year. It improves safety for vehicles traveling on certain streets during wintry conditions.  

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready