Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/Mayor Owens Announces Release of 2026 City Services Guide
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces Release of 2026 City Services Guide

Published on January 09, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon Owens announced the 2026 City Services Guide will begin arriving to city resident mailboxes starting Monday, Jan 26. The reference guide, created by the Department of Public Works (DPW), is used by residents all year long for need-to-know guidelines and dates for DPW services, as well as contact information for services provided by City departments.  

“The City Services guide is about making sure every resident knows what help is available and how to access it,” said Mayor Sharon Owens. “Clear, reliable information strengthens neighborhoods and help people connect with the services they need to live safely and confidently in our City.”  

The booklet outlines services provided by the City and resident responsibilities for trash and recycling disposal, sidewalk clearing and maintenance, and sewer services. The guide includes a map of the city quadrants for DPW pickups and a full schedule for biweekly recycling, yard waste and leaf pickups in 2026.  

Cityline offers residents access to customer service representatives who can answer questions or direct each request to the appropriate department to address. Using the mobile app or the web portal SYRCityline, all city residents can submit service requests, check progress on requests, offer direct feedback, and have access to requests submitted by your neighbors. The City Services Guide refers residents to the Cityline phone number 315-448-CITY (2489) and social media handle (@syrcityline) more frequently to ensure residents can view non-emergency service-related updates as they are posted regularly.  

A directory of phone numbers for immediate assistance can be found on the front of the guide. The 2026 City Services Guide can also be downloaded at syr.gov/PublicWorks. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready