Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Parks & Recreation Press Releases/City Names William Sullivan to Parks Trails Coordinator
Listen
City Names William Sullivan to Parks Trails Coordinator

Published on May 12, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs announced the appointment of William Sullivan to the role of Trails Coordinator. Sullivan will be responsible for facilitating the maintenance and revitalization of trailways within the City of Syracuse. He will assist in the management of City of Syracuse operated portions of the Onondaga Creekwalk, Empire State Trail and other trails within city limits.
 
“We are excited to have Billy join our team,” said Syeisha Byrd, Commissioner of Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs. “We’re looking forward to utilizing his experience to modernize and protect our trails.” 
Sullivan previously worked as Regional Trails Coordinator for the News York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, conducting and providing management on trail sustainability and long-term maintenance. He most recently worked as a Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator for Onondaga County Department of Water Environment Protection, where his role included analysis of water quality, monitoring biological and chemical treatment process, and maintaining compliance with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
 
Sullivan holds a Bachelor of Science in Environmental Biology from State University of New York Environmental Science and Forestry, has volunteer experience in avian care from the Rosamond Gifford Zoo, participated in the Monitoring Avian Productivity and Survivorship (MAPS) Bird Banding Program and has provided volunteer youth education for the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.  
For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Syracuse Parks & Recreation News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus