Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/West Kirkpatrick Street Bridge to Close Mar. 9 for Repairs
Listen
West Kirkpatrick Street Bridge to Close Mar. 9 for Repairs

Published on March 06, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Engineering will close the West Kirkpatrick Street bridge over Onondaga Creek to all traffic beginning Monday, March 9 for repairs. The City’s contractor will replace bridge joints and complete related repairs to protect the safety and long-term function of the bridge. The bridge will remain closed to all through traffic for several weeks; actual project timeframe is contingent on favorable weather.

During construction, local traffic will continue to have access to properties up to the bridge. The City’s contractor will provide clearly marked detours throughout the closure for the duration of the project.

Detour Information

Northbound and Southbound traffic will be detoured to Van Rensselaer St, Spencer St, Solar St. and back to Kirkpatrick St.

Pedestrian access to the Creekwalk will not be restricted. Drivers may experience delays, follow posted detour signs and consider using alternative routes whenever possible.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready