Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Parks & Recreation Press Releases/City Parks to Host Annual Mile Marketplace October 3
Listen
City Parks to Host Annual Mile Marketplace October 3

Published on September 30, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs will host the annual Mile Marketplace on Saturday, Oct. 3, from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. along the Onondaga Creekwalk at Lower Onondaga Park (655 Onondaga Avenue, Syracuse, NY, 13207).

This year’s event will feature an expanded lineup of activities, entertainment and community resource opportunities designed to highlight local crafters, artists, food vendors, musicians, small businesses and local non-profits. There will also be activities and games provided for all ages throughout the duration of the event.

“Our Parks team is proud to host Mile Marketplace each fall,” said Deputy Commissioner of Parks, Chris Abbott. “Mile Marketplace celebrates the creativity and passion of local artists, musicians and entrepreneurs while showcasing our beautiful park and pathways. It’s a wonderful way to support local, while discovering the many ways our neighborhood parks help advance community health and wellness.”

Additional experiences include pop-up fitness classes, a tree identification walk, walking tour of the Creekwalk, Onondaga Greenhouse tours, cooking demonstrations and a free yard tree giveaway for City of Syracuse property owners.

Schedule of events:

10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.: Open House at the Onondaga Park Greenhouse
10:30 a.m.: Yoga
11:30 a.m.: Zumba Gold
12:00 p.m.: Zumba Basic
12:30 p.m.: Tree ID Walk

 
On-street parking will be available along Lower Onondaga Creek Park Drive and surrounding neighborhood streets, where posted signs allow. For more information on Mile Marketplace, visit the Syracuse Parks and Recreation social media pages.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Syracuse Parks & Recreation News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

Site Footer
CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

Site Footer
CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
Site Footer
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 152MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus