Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/Public Meeting on Regional Market Area Mobility Improvements March 5
Listen
Public Meeting on Regional Market Area Mobility Improvements March 5

Published on February 26, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Engineering announced a public meeting on the Regional Transportation Center (RTC) and Regional Market Area Mobility Improvement project. The proposed work consists of improvements to mobility and safety for pedestrians and bicyclists who travel to the Regional Market, Regional Transportation Center, NBT Bank Stadium and Destiny USA area

The public meeting will be held on March 5 from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. at CNY Regional Market, 2100 Park St., Admin/Retail Buildings, Syracuse, NY 13208 on the Ground Floor. Free parking will be available on site.

The project proposes improvements to pedestrian mobility, enhancements to identified areas and provides a safe and maintainable multi-modal transportation corridor. This work includes improving pedestrian and bicycle safety along Park Street, NBT Bank Parkway, Tex Simone Drive and Hiawatha Boulevard by replacing sidewalks and curbs, installing ADA-compliant curb ramps, upgrading traffic signals and adding shared-use paths for walking and biking.

Residents can learn more and provide feedback online by visiting syr.gov/RMA-RTC. Public comments will be accepted until March 20, 2026.

# ## #

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready