Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/Downtown Committee Opens Applications for Cultural Festivals Fund
Listen
Downtown Committee Opens Applications for Cultural Festivals Fund

Published on August 04, 2026

The below release was issued by the Downtown Committee.

Funding Available to Support Community Festivals

Funds are now available through the Syracuse Cultural Festivals Fund, established by the City of Syracuse in recognition of how festivals and event programming foster a vibrant community. Up to $180,000 in grant funds will support non-profit community groups in delivering celebratory events centered around a specific theme. These events must be free for the public to attend (with no ticket purchase necessary), take place within the City of Syracuse, and offer entertainment and/or activities for attendees.

Festivals planned to be held between the timeframe of October 2026 through September 2027 are eligible for consideration, with grant applications between $3,000 and $10,000 per festival. Applications will be evaluated based on various criteria including how the festival or event attracts to publicly accessible spaces, the extent to which it enhances the community’s awareness of cultural and artistic resources, and its capacity to foster appreciation for diverse cultures, traditions, and art forms. 

“Syracuse is home to an abundance of cultures, and the festivals that take place each year are a reflection of the unique blend of our neighborhoods. Each cultural festival contributes to the richness of our community and are an important part of what makes Syracuse such a great place to work, live, and play,” said Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens. “I am grateful for the Common Council’s continued commitment to fostering the cultural diversity of this City and encourage eligible event organizers to apply for this funding.”

"When Councilor Caldwell and I first pitched this, it was born out of necessity due to the pandemic. We never dreamed that it would serve as a way for new little festivals to pop up, but that is exactly what has happened. This pot of money is a perfect example of how small investments can have tremendous impact. We are city of so many cultures, and being able to celebrate them all across Syracuse makes my heart sing. I implore everyone to get out there and explore all that Syracuse has to offer,” said Syracuse Common Councilor Jimmy Monto. 

Funds will be administered by the Downtown Syracuse Foundation, Inc. and are intended to reimburse organizers for eligible expenses associated with awarded festivals and events. Applications should be submitted at least two months prior to the event or program date. The first round of applications is due at 11:59 pm on August 20, 2026. Additional rounds of funding will be offered depending on the availability of funds. 

Please visit downtownsyracusefoundation.org to learn more and download the application. 

The Downtown Syracuse Foundation is 501c3 non-profit organization whose purpose is to conduct research, identify best policies and practices, secure resources, and implement programs and projects to support the revitalization of Downtown Syracuse.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

Site Footer
CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

Site Footer
CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
Site Footer
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus