Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/Mayor Sharon F. Owens Announces the Return of Veo Fleet
Listen
Mayor Sharon F. Owens Announces the Return of Veo Fleet

Published on March 10, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the annual return of the Veo micromobility program to the City of Syracuse. Following a planned reduction during the winter months, Veo has returned its fleet to full capacity as of March 9, 2026, providing residents with convenient, affordable, and sustainable transportation options for navigating in the City. 

The program experienced steady growth during the 2025 season, totaling 648,000 rides, with over 1 million miles traveled. Rider survey data from over 750 local riders provided insight on how Veo is helping increase mobility and reducing reliance on personal cars in the community. The survey showed that approximately 66% of riders do not own or have access to a car, and 52% of riders have used Veo to connect to transit. 

“As Syracuse continues to invest in safer streets and more accessible transportation options, programs like Veo give residents additional ways to get to where they need to go. Shared e-bikes and scooters help people connect to work, school, and public transit while supporting safer and more sustainable travel in our city. We’re proud to welcome Veo back and continue building a transportation system that works for everyone,” said Mayor Sharon F. Owens. 

The 2026 updated operating agreement between the City and Veo includes several enhancements designed to improve the rider experience and support responsible micromobility use. Veo will introduce new cargo baskets on vehicles to make everyday trips like going to the grocery store more convenient. The company will also continue to prioritize community education and outreach, with a particular focus on improving accessibility and preventing underage riding. In addition, Veo will maintain its financial contributions to the City, ensuring the program continues to operate in partnership with community goals. 

“Year after year, more people are choosing Veo to get around Syracuse—ridership grew 24% in 2025 as residents turned to shared e-bikes and scooters for everyday trips,” said Candice Xie, co-founder and CEO of Veo. “We’re proud to partner with the City of Syracuse and look forward to building on this momentum to expand access to sustainable transportation.” 

To learn more about the Veo micromobility program, become familiar with the rules of the road, or find out if you’re eligible for discounted rates, visit veoride.com/syracuse. Residents with questions should call the number available on the bike or scooter (855-VEO-2256) or email hello@veoride.com. Syracuse residents can also directly email syrops@veoride.com with any questions or concerns. 

Spring promotion 

Riders can get $5 in free credit with the promo code SPRING26. 

 

 
For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready