Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces City After Hours for Select Constituent Services

Published on June 30, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced that starting Monday, July 6, constituent services at the City Payment Center, Municipal Violations Bureau, Department of Assessment, and Central Permit Office will be open until 7 p.m. weekly on Mondays. The extended hours program, called City After Hours, will work to allow residents greater flexibility in accessing constituent services beyond normal workday hours. Current operating hours will continue Tuesday through Friday.

“Providing residents with superior constituent service includes ensuring that these services are accessible,” said Mayor Owens. “We’re testing out our extended hours on Mondays to give residents who can’t come during normal working hours the opportunity to come after work to pay their bills, dispute their parking tickets, or apply for permits. If the After Hours program is helpful to residents, we will reevaluate our hours of operation to make our services even more accessible.”

Starting July 6, operating hours for each service counter are as follows:

 

	

Monday

	

Tuesday - Friday




City Payment Center:

	

8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.

	

8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.




Municipal Violations Bureau:

	

8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.

	

8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.




Department of Assessment:

	

8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.

	

8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.




Central Permit Office:

	

8:30 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.

	

8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.

The City Payment Center, Municipal Violations Bureau, and Department of Assessment are all located on the first floor of City Hall at 233 East Washington Street. Street parking is available on Market and Montgomery Streets. The Central Permit Office is located on the first floor of City offices at One Park Place, 300 South State Street. The entrance is located on East Onondaga Street. Parking is available at the One Park Place parking lot located at 343 East Onondaga Street.

The City also offers 24/7 online self-services for the City Payment Center, Municipal Violations Bureau, and Central Permit Office where residents can pay their bills and parking tickets and apply for permits and licenses. For more information visit syr.gov.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus