Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces Closure of Stores Engaging in Illegal Activity

Published on April 16, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the closure of stores found to be engaging in illegal activity. On March 17, 2026, the Onondaga County Supreme Court ruled that the City’s Division of Code Enforcement acted lawfully in ordering a convenience store, which was found to be selling cannabis without a license and selling tobacco to minors, to close without the necessity of first obtaining a court order.

Over the past year, Code Enforcement and the Department of Law have collaborated to address properties engaging in illegal activity. Those efforts have been challenged in nine separate Article 78 lawsuits commenced by establishments ordered closed by Code Enforcement after illegal activity was found to be occurring at the property.

The City has won all nine lawsuits, the outcomes of which reaffirm the City’s authority to close stores engaged in illegal activity without the need to obtain a court order.  The cases involved seven properties across the City, including locations on S. Geddes Street, Midland Avenue, Wolf Street, N. Geddes Street, Oakwood Avenue, and Park Street.

"These rulings are a clear confirmation that our code enforcement procedures are lawful," said Mayor Owens. "When stores put our residents, especially our children, at risk by selling illegal drugs and/or tobacco to minors, we will act with immediacy, and I am pleased that the decisions support these actions."

In addition, where the threat is determined to be imminent, the Court has also sustained the City’s ability to immediately shutter a property. In a case involving a store at 1001 Park Street, the Onondaga County Supreme Court upheld the City's immediate closure of the store after Syracuse Police Department detectives found synthetic drugs being sold from the premises. The Court specifically stated that synthetic drugs present an immediate risk to public health and safety, affirming that the City may take immediate action without prior notice to remediate the public risk.

"This has been a major undertaking that required significant coordination and effort across multiple City departments," said Corporation Counsel Sue Katzoff. "We are thrilled with these results. They demonstrate that with collaboration and sufficient resources, we can make significant improvements in our neighborhoods.”

The Division of Code Enforcement, Department of Law, Syracuse Fire Department, and Syracuse Police Department have worked in coordination to prioritize efforts that enforce the immediate closure of stores found to be engaging in illegal activity. The successive court rulings in the City’s favor will be instrumental to these continued efforts by the City to ensure resident health and safety. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready