Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/City of Syracuse to Host Job Fair on September 24
Listen
City of Syracuse to Host Job Fair on September 24

Published on September 15, 2026

The City of Syracuse is hosting a job fair on Thursday, September 24, 2026, from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. at CNY Works, 960 James Street, Syracuse, NY 13203. Information about all open positions and employee benefits will be available, and representatives from participating City departments will be present to review resumes and answer questions about the City’s hiring process. Applications will be available and accepted on-site.

There are currently more than 50 open positions across departments including Water, Public Works, Neighborhood and Business Development, Law, Human Resources, Finance, Syracuse Police Department (Civilian), and more.

The Departments of Water and Public Works are actively seeking applicants with Certified Driver’s Licenses (CDLs) for several open positions including Motor Equipment Operators, Sewer Maintenance Workers, and Water Maintenance Workers.

“Our CDL drivers are vital to keeping the City running, especially as we continue updating our water infrastructure throughout the City,” said Robert Brandt, Commissioner of Water. “We are constantly looking for people with CDLs to join our crews so if you or someone you know has a CDL, I encourage you to come to our job fair to learn more about how to work for Syracuse.”

“As we gear up for winter and the snowstorms to come, we encourage everyone with a CDL to apply for our various open positions and join the best snow-fighting crews in the nation,” said Ann Fordock, First Deputy Commissioner of Public Works.

Attendees should bring printed copies of their resume and wear professional attire. To view and apply for all current job openings at the City of Syracuse, visit syr.gov/jobs.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

Site Footer
CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

Site Footer
CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
Site Footer
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus