Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Owens Launches Syracuse Community Solar
Listen
Mayor Owens Launches Syracuse Community Solar

Published on March 05, 2026

Program connects Syracuse residents and businesses to an official Community Solar provider to help lower electric bills without installing solar panels 

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the launch of Syracuse Community Solar, a new program to help residents access clean, locally generated energy and reduce household energy expenses. The announcement was made during the mayor’s remarks at the annual New York State Green Building Conference.  

“Syracuse Community Solar reflects our continued focus on pairing climate leadership with affordability and commitment to improve quality of life for all,” said Mayor Owens. “The program is all about giving Syracuse residents a practical solution to respond to climate change, one that supports clean energy and saves money. Working with EnergySmart CNY and Solar Simplified, we will be rolling out a comprehensive outreach campaign to ensure residents know what they are signing up for – no-cost access to local solar credits that yield direct savings on your electric bill.” 

The program builds off larger efforts to further education and resident empowerment around sustainability solutions as part of the City’s Sustainable Syracuse Initiative and partnership with EnergySmart CNY, Central New York’s Regional Clean Energy Hub. Through a competitive regional procurement process, led by the Central New York Regional Planning and Development Board, Solar Simplified was selected as the official Community Solar provider for EnergySmart CNY.  

Syracuse Community Solar connects Syracuse residents and businesses to Solar Simplified where they can subscribe to a share of electricity produced by local solar farms and receive credits directly on their National Grid utility bills. Participation is free, with no additional fees and no long-term contracts. Solar credits applied to the bill reduce electricity costs, resulting in guaranteed savings of up to 10 percent without installing solar panels or changing utility providers. While all program participants qualify for a 10 percent discount, income-qualified households may qualify for a 20 percent discount. Renters, homeowners, and businesses are all eligible to participate. 

“Community solar provides an opportunity for people of all income levels to benefit from solar energy and bill reductions. Even if you rent or can’t put solar panels on your roof, you can benefit from solar panels elsewhere,” explains Lindsay Speer, Senior Energy Planner at the Central New York Regional Planning and Development Board and Director of the EnergySmart CNY program. “We've heard a lot of confusion from Syracuse residents about community solar. We hope the research we’ve done helps more of our neighbors feel confident in subscribing to community solar. We are pleased to partner with Solar Simplified to make the process easy for all.” 

Syracuse Community Solar will roll out in phases and include City communications, direct mail, digital marketing, community-based outreach, and targeted engagement to facilitate broad participation across Syracuse neighborhoods, including households that have historically faced barriers to accessing renewable energy. 

Solar Simplified will manage all enrollment, customer support, and program administration, ensuring a seamless experience for participants. 

“Community Solar is most powerful when it’s rooted in strong local partnerships,” said Aviv Shalgi, CEO of Solar Simplified. “We’re thrilled to collaborate with the City of Syracuse and EnergySmart CNY to expand access to renewable energy and deliver tangible economic benefits to Syracuse communities.” 

Enrollment in Syracuse Community Solar is now open. Residents can learn more and sign up at SolarSimplified.com/Syracuse or by calling 888-420-9831. Enrollment is available on a first-come, first-served basis, subject to available solar capacity. 

More information and resources are also available on the City’s website, at syr.gov/community-solar. 

# ## #

About Solar Simplified 

Solar Simplified matches renters, homeowners and businesses with local solar farms, making it easy to save money and support clean, local energy without upfront costs, additional fees, or long-term commitments. As a national Community Solar provider serving tens of thousands of households and partnering with over 100 municipalities and community organizations, Solar Simplified makes renewable energy accessible, affordable, and equitable for all. 

About EnergySmart CNY 

EnergySmart CNY helps people connect to programs, upgrades and funding to make their homes and buildings more energy efficient, and training to be part of the clean energy workforce. EnergySmart CNY is a local Regional Clean Energy Hub serving Onondaga, Oswego, Cortland, Madison, and Cayuga Counties, coordinated by the Central New York Regional Planning and Development Board, and local nonprofits Alliance for Green Economy and Greater Syracuse Works. To learn more about EnergySmart CNY, and for Central New York residents outside of the City of Syracuse to connect to community solar, visit energysmartcny.org. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready