Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Water Department Reports 2nd Half 2025 Sampling Meet EPA Lead Standard
Listen
Water Department Reports 2nd Half 2025 Sampling Meet EPA Lead Standard

Published on March 02, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Water released the second half 2025 water sampling results that show Syracuse drinking water meets U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards for the third straight reporting period. The samples, collected by a third-party contractor and analyzed by an independent laboratory, were presented to the Environmental Protection Agency, New York State and Onondaga County health regulators. 

Under EPA public drinking water requirements, 100 samples were taken from homes with lead service lines from July to December of 2025. The 90th percentile results came in at 12 parts per billion (ppb), under the current EPA lead action level of 15 ppb.

To conduct sampling, the City hired an independent contractor for public water systems with specialized expertise in administering water sampling and mailed sampling kits with instructions to a database of participating properties. The locations were developed in close collaboration with State and County regulators. 

Consistent with EPA requirements, residents of participating properties collected tap water from kitchen or bathroom sinks and returned the samples directly to the testing laboratory by mail. An independent contractor sent results to participants, and the testing laboratory reported all data to the City.  

“We have been continuing our efforts to improve our water sampling through utilizing a third-party contractor. These results are a demonstration of our ongoing commitment to meeting the standards set by EPA,” said Robert Brandt, Commissioner of Water.  

The City’s water supply is sourced from Skaneateles Lake. The water leaves Skaneateles Lake and travels through the city’s water mains and is free of lead. When water is in contact with pipes [or service lines] or plumbing that contains lead for several hours, the lead may enter the drinking water. Homes built before 1988 are more likely to have lead pipes or lead solder.

Exposure to lead in drinking water can cause serious health effects in all age groups. Infants and children can have decreases in IQ and attention span. Lead exposure can lead to new learning and behavior problems or exacerbate existing learning and behavior problems. The children of women who are exposed to lead before or during pregnancy can have increased risk of these adverse health effects. Adults can have increased risks of heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney or nervous system problems.  

The City of Syracuse Water Department treats drinking water with orthophosphate, a food-grade additive approved by the FDA and recognized by the EPA for reducing lead levels by coating lead service lines. The Department is also working with a technical assistance consultant in collaboration with the EPA to comprehensively optimize the corrosion control system where possible.

The City continues to monitor water quality, is conducting regularly scheduled sampling collection as required by the EPA, is actively replacing lead lines during projects, and is developing a plan to replace all known lead service lines ahead of the EPA’s deadline.  

For more information about lead safety and the City’s ongoing commitment, visit syr.gov/lead-free-syracuse or contact the Department of Water at 315-448-8354.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready