Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens and Council Seek Review of Appellate Division Decision

Published on June 15, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens, alongside members of the Syracuse Common Council, announced that the City will request permission from the Court to appeal the recent decision issued by the Appellate Division Fourth Department.

“While we value the long-standing partnerships with our local colleges and universities, we have a responsibility to promote fairness for the many local businesses and commercial property owners who pay taxes while providing goods and services to the general public,” said Mayor Owens. “The City's appeal is not a challenge to the University's educational mission. Rather, it stems from the assessor's analysis which indicates that a portion of the revenue generated by the Schine Student Center is derived from activity involving the general public and not exclusively students, faculty, or the University's academic operations. It is that portion of the facility for which the City is seeking taxation.”

“Decisions that affect the City’s tax base and economic environment have far-reaching implications for our ability to provide essential services to residents,” said Common Council President Paniagua and Finance Chair Williams. “As Syracuse continues to address the growing demands for quality-of-life services, preserving a stable and equitable revenue base remains a critical priority. Our objective is not only to maintain strong and productive relationships with our institutional partners, but also to safeguard the resources necessary to support the long-term fiscal health of the City and the services upon which Syracuse residents rely every day. We remain committed to working collaboratively toward solutions that balance institutional growth with the broader interests of the community as a whole”.

The City remains committed to having a fair and equitable tax system that supports essential public services and maintains stability for all residents.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus