Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/Statement from Mayor Owens
Listen
Statement from Mayor Owens

Published on October 02, 2026

Statement by Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens regarding the recent judgement on the Mendy Kletzky case.

“This is a clear message that the City of Syracuse will not tolerate owners who disregard the law and endanger tenants. This judgment represents one of the largest awards the City has ever secured in a code enforcement action. The magnitude of this judgement reflects the seriousness of these violations and demonstrates the consequences to landlords pocketing rents and hiding behind LLCs without properly maintaining their properties. The court’s findings allow us to move swiftly to ensure these properties are transferred to responsible owners and validates the years of diligent work by City staff to hold problem landlords fully responsible. We will continue to use every legal avenue available to protect residents and ensure that housing in Syracuse is safe, stable, and landlords are kept accountable.”

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

Site Footer
CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

Site Footer
CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
Site Footer
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 152MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus