Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Syracuse Department of Public Works Receives Two APWA Awards
Listen
Syracuse Department of Public Works Receives Two APWA Awards

Published on April 02, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Public Works (DPW) has received two awards from the American Public Works Association (APWA) for its Waste & Recycling Revitalization Program. The initiative significantly improved the City’s trash and recycling operation through distribution of new 96-gallon carts citywide, optimization of sanitation routes and a conversion to a semi-automated collection process. These changes reduced injuries for sanitation workers, minimized the presence of litter in neighborhoods and made it easier for residents to comply with the City’s trash and recycling regulations. The APWA Project of the Year awards recognize public works programs that show strong results, innovation and community impact.

“This award recognizes the significant work of our DPW team to implement a complete overhaul of sanitation operations,” said Mayor Sharon F. Owens. “We are making services more reliable, ensuring our workers stay safe and keeping our neighborhoods clean.”

In 2022, the City’s Sanitation staff accounted for 41% of all shoulder injuries throughout the city; in 2025, the figure had been reduced to zero, with no shoulder injuries reported by employees within the Sanitation bureau that year.

On February 12, 2026, DPW received the 2025 Management Innovation Project of the Year Award from the APWA Central New York Branch. Following that award, DPW also received a statewide award from the APWA New York Chapter during its Annual Awards Banquet on March 18, 2026.

“This program is about keeping our sanitation crews safe,” said Ann Fordock, First Deputy Commissioner of Public Works. “We improved routes, reduced missed pickups and made service more efficient across the City.”

To learn more about the APWA, visit  newyork.apwa.org .

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready