Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/City to Host Public Meeting for James Street Improvement Project
Listen
City to Host Public Meeting for James Street Improvement Project

Published on July 03, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Engineering will host a public meeting to share the preliminary design and gather public feedback on the James Street improvement project on Wednesday, July 8, 2026, from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Lincoln Middle School Cafeteria, 1613 James St. 

The project will improve James Street between State Street and Grant Boulevard by resurfacing the roadway, replacing aging infrastructure and improving safety and accessibility for drivers, pedestrians and bicyclists. In following the City’s “Dig Once” approach, planned improvements include new sidewalks and curb ramps, a shared-use path, upgraded traffic signals, water main and lead service line replacements, drainage improvements and new trees. 

Residents will have an opportunity to review the proposed design, speak with the project team and provide feedback before the design is finalized. Parking will be available in the school’s parking lot. Attendees should enter through the main entrance of Lincoln Middle School. 

Public comments will be accepted at the meeting and online through July 17. 2026. To submit feedback and find additional project information, residents can visit syr.gov/James-Street.

.  

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus