Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens to Present Proclamation for Rick Brunson Appreciation Day

Published on June 25, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced that she will present a proclamation for Coach Rick Brunson Appreciation Day on Friday, June 26 at 3:00 p.m. on the steps of City Hall. Eric Daniel “Rick” Brunson, Assistant Coach of the New York Knicks and Syracuse native, will be present as the City honors his Syracuse roots and celebrates the role he played in helping the New York Knicks win the 2026 NBA Championship earlier this month. Local elected officials will join Mayor Owens in presenting their respective honors to Coach Brunson. 

“I am excited to welcome Coach Brunson back to his roots here in Syracuse,” said Mayor Owens. “Syracuse is ready to celebrate the Knicks’ historic victory with him and his family. We are proud to call him a son of Syracuse.” 

To facilitate the setup, presentation, and security of the event, the following street closures will begin at 1:00 p.m. on Friday and end at 6:00 p.m. on Friday: 

East Washington Street from S. State Street to S. Warren Street.  

Montgomery Street from E. Water Street to E. Fayette Street. Street parking will not be permitted from 2:00 p.m. on Thursday until 6:00 p.m. on Friday. 

Market Street from E. Water Street to E. Washington Street.  

The proclamation event is free and open to the public. Attendees are asked to arrive no earlier than 2:00 p.m. to ensure minimal disruption of City Hall operations. Regular business operations at City Hall will continue as normal. Residents who plan on conducting business at City Hall from 1:00 p.m. to close of business on Friday should accommodate additional time for potential delays caused by road closures and plan on finding alternative parking.  

Instructions for Media 

Mayor Owens and Coach Brunson will take questions from the media at 2:30 p.m. in the iLab at City Hall prior to the event on Friday. All media must present their credentials to the security desk at the entrance on Market Street and once again at the security desk on the second floor. Immediately following the presser, media should make their way outside and set up in the designated area, as indicated in the attached map. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus