Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/City of Syracuse to Host Public Meeting on Creekwalk Phase 3 Project
Listen
City of Syracuse to Host Public Meeting on Creekwalk Phase 3 Project

Published on April 20, 2026

The City of Syracuse will host a public meeting to share updates and gather feedback on the Creekwalk Phase 3 extension project. The meeting will take place on Monday, April 27, 2026, at 6 p.m. at Brighton Academy Middle School Cafeteria, 309 W. Brighton Ave. Parking will be available in the school’s parking lot.

The project will extend the trail system south along Onondaga Creek, connecting neighborhoods and creating safer options for walking and biking. It will add new trail segments, improve sidewalks, and enhance safety at road crossings. At the meeting, City staff will present the preferred trail route and share early design plans. Residents will have the opportunity to ask questions and provide input.

Residents are encouraged to attend and share their feedback. Public comments will be accepted at the meeting and online through May 29, 2026. To submit feedback and find additional project information, residents can visit syr.gov/Creekwalk-Phase3.

 

 

 

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus