Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/City Of Syracuse Announces Start Of Midland Avenue Improvement Project
Listen
City Of Syracuse Announces Start Of Midland Avenue Improvement Project

Published on May 29, 2026

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – The City of Syracuse Department of Engineering announced a road reconstruction project on Midland Avenue between West Ostrander Avenue and West Seneca Turnpike beginning on Monday, June 1.

The work will include milling and paving, repairing sidewalks, installing new curbs, improving pedestrian crossings, traffic signals, signage and striping, adjusting utility infrastructure, and planting new street trees in select locations.

Construction will be completed in phases to help maintain traffic flow. Drivers may experience delays and are advised to use alternate routes if possible. Construction is expected to continue through Fall of 2026; actual project timeframe is contingent upon favorable weather.

# ## #

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus