Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Owens Announces the Return of the Bravest Vs. Finest Game
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces the Return of the Bravest Vs. Finest Game

Published on March 11, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the return of the Bravest vs. Finest basketball game, a friendly yet competitive matchup between members of the Syracuse Fire Department and Syracuse Police Department in support of United Way of Central New York. Last year, Syracuse’s Bravest [fire] claimed victory with a 92-88 win, and the upcoming game promises even more excitement as both teams compete to capture the trophy while raising awareness and support for a local non-profit.

The game will take place on Friday April 17, 2026 at Henninger High School. Doors open at 5:30 PM, with tip-off scheduled for 6:30 PM. Tickets are just $10 per person, and children 5 and under can attend for free. Free on-site parking will be available.

“Last year, the energy was incredible, and it was great to see our community come together for both a fun competition and to support a local nonprofit making a real impact,” said Mayor Owens. “This event is more than just a game; it’s a chance for our Police and Fire Departments to face off while uniting the community. I enjoyed watching it last year, and I’m excited it’s returning to support United Way of CNY.”

United Way of Central New York’s mission is to ignite the spirit of community collaboration, giving, and civic engagement to improve lives in Central New York with a focus on four key areas: Youth Opportunity, Healthy Community, Financial Security, and Community Resiliency. For more than a century they have been a trusted partner, raising awareness, engaging the community, and directing resources where they are needed most.

“The return of the Bravest vs. Finest game is about more than just what happens on the court; it’s about the incredible spirit of service that defines our community,” said Carrie Large, President & CEO of United Way of CNY. “We are thrilled to bring this game back again, celebrating our local heroes while raising the vital funds necessary to tackle our region's most pressing challenges. When our first responders team up with the United Way, everyone in our community wins." 

All proceeds from the event will help to fund programs and services that uplift and support individuals and families throughout the Central New York region. Last year’s game raised over $2,500 and United Way of CNY aims to raise even more this year.

The partnership with United Way and the Syracuse City School District also opens the game to the public and welcomes a larger audience.

“I have a deep appreciation for our first responders, so I’m truly honored that we’re once again able to host this game which recognizes their dedication while it also helps a meaningful cause. “said Pamela J. Odom, Superintendent of Syracuse City School District

Join us for an evening of action, excitement, and community impact. For more information, tickets, and details about the event, visit unitedway-cny.org/bvf. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Event Page

LEARN MORE ABOUT THE EVENT HERE.

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready