Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Owens Opens Public Commenting Period for Climate Action Plan
Listen
Mayor Owens Opens Public Commenting Period for Climate Action Plan

Published on March 23, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens opened the public commenting period for feedback on the City’s draft inaugural Climate Action Plan. The plan was developed through extensive partner and public engagement to address current impacts of climate change in our community. The plan will outline current climate science, Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory (GHGI) reduction models, key strategic avenues for climate action, and methods to implement the plan alongside further educational engagement efforts.

Residents and community stakeholders are encouraged to participate. Feedback will play a critical role in shaping the final Climate Action Plan, ensuring it reflects the needs and priorities of the community in Syracuse. The commenting portal can be accessed online at syr.gov/sustainable-syracuse and will remain open until April 21.

“Public engagement is critical to the success of the Climate Action Plan and greater Sustainable Syracuse Initiative,” said Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens.  “We want to hear from everyone—whether you are a climate advocate or new to the concept of sustainable solutions, all feedback will help us build a path that empowers our partners to prioritize climate resiliency when addressing the needs of our whole community today, and tomorrow.

The City previously conducted four public meetings regarding the Climate Action Plan to collect input and perspective. After synthesizing all community feedback, the City will revise the draft plan and present a final version for adoption by the Common Council later this year.

This project has been funded in part by the Climate Smart Communities Grant Program, Title 15 of the Environmental Protection Fund through the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

For more information about the Sustainable Syracuse Initiative, visit syr.gov/sustainable-syracuse.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready