Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/Nob Hill Fire Investigation Update
Listen
Nob Hill Fire Investigation Update

Published on July 15, 2026

According to Syracuse Fire Investigators, the fire on February 28, 2026 at the Nob Hill Apartments originated in the rear living space of the apartment. The cause of the fire has been classified as undetermined. Investigators conducted a thorough investigation, but the available evidence did not support identifying one specific cause over other potential causes. In accordance with NFPA 921, when multiple possible causes cannot be eliminated through the scientific method, the proper cause classification is undetermined. The Onondaga County Medical Examiner's Office determined that the individual found deceased inside the apartment died as a result of thermal injuries and smoke inhalation. The second deceased individual discovered elsewhere on the property that same day did not die as a result of the fire.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus