Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/Kelly Haggerty Appointed to Deputy Commissioner of Water
Listen
Kelly Haggerty Appointed to Deputy Commissioner of Water

Published on July 01, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the appointment of Kelly Haggerty as Deputy Commissioner of Water. Haggerty will work alongside the Commissioner of Water to support departmental operations, craft departmental policies, and oversee day-to-day operations.

“Kelly’s experience and commitment to public service make her an excellent addition to the Department of Water,” said Mayor Owens. “Her leadership and expertise will be critical in strengthening our operational capacity and driving progress on initiatives that ensure the long-term reliability, efficiency, and sustainability of our water system.” 

Haggerty joins the Department of Water after serving as Property Manager for the New York State Fair. She previously spent 17 years with the City of Syracuse Department of Engineering, where she served as a Facilities Engineer and later as Division Engineer for Public Buildings. In her role with the Department of Engineering, Haggerty played a significant role in the Joint Schools Construction Board, helping oversee the renovation of 20 Syracuse City School District buildings.

A Syracuse native, Haggerty was raised in the Tipperary Hill neighborhood and continues to reside there today. She graduated from Bishop Ludden High School and earned a degree in Architecture from Northeastern University in Boston.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus