Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/DPW To Convert Flashing Traffic Signal To Standard Signals This Spring
Listen
DPW To Convert Flashing Traffic Signal To Standard Signals This Spring

Published on March 27, 2026

City of Syracuse Department of Public Works (DPW) will change the traffic signal at the intersection of S. Geddes Street and W. Onondaga Street and Grant Boulevard & Lemoyne Avenue from a yellow and red flashing light to a standard signal light on Wednesday, April 1.

On S. Geddes & W. Onondaga Street
On S. Geddes Street, drivers traveling northbound and southbound will observe the yellow flashing light convert to a standard signal light

On W. Onondaga Street, vehicles traveling eastbound and westbound will observe the flashing red light convert to a standard signal light.

Grant Boulevard & Lemoyne Avenue
On Grant Boulevard, drivers traveling northbound and southbound will observe the flashing yellow light convert to a standard signal light.

On Lemoyne Ave, drivers traveling eastbound and westbound will observe the flashing red light convert to a standard signal light.

The bi-annual changeover is a regularly scheduled seasonal conversion to address the flow of traffic for vehicles traveling on the busy intersections of S. Geddes Street hill and Grant Boulevard hill in wintry conditions from November to the end of March. The traffic signal conversions will return the signal to three color operations (red, yellow, green) including pedestrian button crossings, for the spring and summer months.

   # ## #

 

 

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready