Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Parks & Recreation Press Releases/City Parks Announces Pass Arboretum Accreditation
Listen
City Parks Announces Pass Arboretum Accreditation

Published on July 27, 2026

Syracuse Department of Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs announced the Level I accreditation of James Pass Arboretum through the ArbNet Accreditation program. This accreditation approves James Pass Arboretum as an internationally recognized arboretum, or tree museum.  
 
The accreditation requires the creation of an improvement plan, a governing group, a designated arboretum manager, at least one tree-related outreach or education program per year, and a labeled collection of at least 25 varieties of woody plants. 
 
The James Pass Arboretum Improvement Plan was created by the Parks Department’s Forestry Division. Requirements for Level I accreditation were achieved through the completion of Phase I of the James Pass Arboretum Improvement Project, including planting new species to support local biodiversity, tree labeling, the creation of outdoor “classrooms”, and walking (path) upgrades to improve accessibility and safety.  
 
“This long-awaited achievement is a reflection of the dedication of our Forestry Division,” said Syeisha Byrd, Commissioner of Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs. “The team has gone above and beyond to preserve, update and enhance our treasured tree collection. We are excited to create new educational opportunities to ensure the space is preserved for generations to come. 
 
Founded by The Morton Arboretum, in collaboration with the American Public Gardens Association and Botanic Gardens Conservation International, the ArbNet Accreditation Program is the only international accreditation program specifically for arboreta. Accreditation can provide access to additional funding opportunities for tree research, conservation, public engagement and education.  
 
Phase II of the James Pass Arboretum Improvement Project is planned to begin in Fall 2026. Project timeline is contingent on material availability, contractor schedules and favorable weather. The planned improvements include additional landscaping and the creation of a “Pollinator Pond” classroom. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Syracuse Parks & Recreation News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

Site Footer
CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

Site Footer
CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
Site Footer
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus