Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Owens Releases Proposed FY27 City of Syracuse Budget
Listen
Mayor Owens Releases Proposed FY27 City of Syracuse Budget

Published on April 08, 2026

Prioritizing fiscal responsibility, transparency, and targeted investments

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens has submitted her proposed Fiscal Year 2027 budget, totaling $354.5 million. The plan emphasizes investments in housing, constituent services, youth and workforce development, and third‑party permit plan review services.  The proposal includes a 4 percent water rate increase and maintains no increase to property taxes. FY27 also marks the beginning of a more collaborative budget process with the Common Council, including the creation of a working group to support ongoing financial planning.

Key Budget Investments

Housing: $2.25 million for the Housing Strategies Corporation.
CARE Team: Centralized support for community assistance and response services.
Property Revaluation: Partial funding for the multi‑year, citywide property revaluation.
City Operations and Safety: New positions focused on nightlife coordination and a Deputy Commissioner of Transportation and Mobility within the Department of Public Works.
Development Services: Funding for third‑party plan review to meet the moment of historic growth in the City.
Youth and Workforce Opportunities: Investments in summer youth employment, the City’s apprenticeship program, and broader workforce development efforts.
Revenue Enhancement: Create a revenue enhancement group to ensure the City is actively exploring additional funding opportunities.

“This budget prioritizes fiscal responsibility, transparency, and targeted investments that not only address our most pressing needs but also lay the foundation for sustainable growth and long‑term stability,” said Mayor Owens. “By aligning our resources with our strategic priorities, we are ensuring that every dollar is used responsibly, thoughtfully, and in direct service to the community.” 

General Fund revenues for FY27 are projected at $330.6 million, a net increase of $12 million from FY26. The growth is driven primarily by $10 million in new temporary state aid (for a total of $15 million), along with increases of $2.9 million in property new tax revenue and $3 million in new sales tax revenue. These gains are partially offset by smaller reductions in areas such as parking ticket receipts, interest earnings on deposits, and ambulance billing revenues. Working in partnership with the Office of Management and Budget, the administration focused this year on improving forecasting accuracy, increasing transparency, and strengthening a year-round budgeting process.

The budget covers the city fiscal year running from July 1, 2026 to June 30, 2027. As required in the City Charter, Mayor Owens delivered her plan to the Common Council on Wednesday. The Council will act on a final City budget by May 8. Mayor Owen’s full fiscal year 2027 budget is available for review at goto.syr.gov/2027-proposedbudget.

The Common Council Finance, Taxation and Assessment Committee will conduct meetings to review the budget between April 9 and April 28 in the Van B. Robinson Common Council Chambers in Syracuse City Hall. 

 

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready