Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Parks & Recreation Press Releases/Traffic Advisory & Street Closure Notice for 2026 St. Patrick's Parade
Listen
Traffic Advisory & Street Closure Notice for 2026 St. Patrick's Parade

Published on March 10, 2026

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – The 2026 Syracuse St. Patrick’s Day Parade will take place on Saturday, March 14. Below is a list of street closures, parking information, and directions to Downtown Syracuse on parade day.  

FRIDAY, MARCH 13 

The Ceremonial Painting of the Stripe: 
South Salina Street, between Washington Street and Erie Boulevard West, will be closed from approximately 9 to 10 a.m. for the Ceremonial Painting of the St. Patrick’s Parade Green Stripe at 9:30 a.m. 

SATURDAY, MARCH 14 

Syracuse St. Patrick’s Parade Day: 
The following streets will be closed at 8 a.m. for the Syracuse St. Patrick’s Day Parade and reopen once the parade has concluded: 

· South Salina Street, between Willow and Adams Streets 

· South Clinton Street, between West Genesee and West Washington Streets  

· James Street, between North Salina and North Warren Streets  

· Erie Boulevard East, between South Salina and South Warren Streets 

· East and West Washington Street, between South Clinton and South Warren Streets  

· East and West Fayette Street, between South Clinton and South Warren Streets 

· East and West Jefferson Street, between South Clinton and South Warren Streets 

· Harrison Street, between South Warren and South Salina Streets 

· West Onondaga Street, between South Salina and West Adams Streets 

· Erie Boulevard West, between South Clinton and Van Rensselaer Streets 

· Tracy Street, between Van Rensselaer and Plum Streets 

· Leavenworth Street, between Wilkinson Street and Erie Boulevard West 

· Plum Street, between Park Avenue and Erie Boulevard West 

· Wilkinson Street, between Barker and Plum Streets 

· Barker Street, between Wilkinson and Tracy Streets 

· West Street off-ramps at Erie Boulevard West 

· West Water Street, between Franklin and Clinton Streets 

· North and South Franklin Streets, between West Washington and West Genesee Streets 

Directions to get in and around Downtown Syracuse on parade day – Saturday, March 14:  

For those coming Downtown, some suggested routes are as follows: 

From the West: Take Route 690 East to the West Street Arterial. Take a left onto West Fayette Street to Franklin Street. Take a right into Armory Square. Take a left for some parking lots and garages close to Clinton Square. 

From the East: Take Route 690 West to Townsend Street. To access areas around James Street, Clinton Square and Hanover Square, take a right onto Townsend Street at the bottom of the ramp, take a left onto James Street and follow James Street into downtown. To access areas around City Hall and the State Office Building, take a left onto Townsend Street at the bottom of the ramp, and proceed on Townsend Street and take a right onto Washington Street. To access areas around Columbus Circle, the Everson Museum of Art, Civic Center, and Oncenter, take a left onto Townsend Street at the bottom of the ramp, proceed on Townsend and take a right onto East Genesee Street and a left onto State Street. 

From the South: Take 81 North and exit at Almond Street. To access areas around Columbus Circle, the Everson Museum of Art, Civic Center, and Oncenter, take a left onto Harrison Street and continue west. To access areas around City Hall and the State Office Building, continue on Almond Street to Washington Street, take a left onto Washington Street and continue west. 

From the North: To access areas around Clinton and Hanover Squares, take Route 81 South to the North Clinton exit. Take a left onto Spencer Street, then a right onto State Street. Continue south on State Street to James Street, Erie Blvd. East, Water Street, or Washington Street. To access areas around the Everson, Civic Center, and Oncenter, exit at Harrison Street, bear right onto Harrison and continue west. Or exit Route 81 at Salina Street, take Salina Street southbound to Willow Street, take a left onto Willow Street to State Street and continue south on State Street. 

For information on the location of various parking garages and lots in Downtown Syracuse, visit downtownsyracuse.com/parking. 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready