Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor, Council and Auditor Thank Senate For One-House Budget Proposal
Listen
Mayor, Council and Auditor Thank Senate For One-House Budget Proposal

Published on March 13, 2026

Mayor Sharon F. Owens, joined by Common Council President Rita Paniagua, Finance Chair Corey Williams, and City Auditor Alexander Marion, expressed their gratitude and appreciation to the New York State Senate for its One-House budget proposal, which includes $30 million in additional aid for the City of Syracuse. Advanced by Senator Rachel May, the proposed funding would double the commitment put forward by Governor Kathy Hochul in her executive budget.

"I want to thank the New York State Senate for recognizing the urgency of Syracuse’s needs and proposing doubling our aid”, said Mayor Owens. “Senator May has been a steadfast advocate for our community, and this proposed investment reflects her commitment to the people of Syracuse. I’d also like to thank Senator Ryan for his advocacy of Central New York and Syracuse’s role in its growth.  With these resources, we can continue strengthening essential services, supporting our neighborhoods, and building a more resilient future for our city."

“Support like this from the State is critical as Syracuse stands on the brink of tremendous growth”, said Council President Paniagua. “We’re grateful to Senator Rachel May for standing up for the needs of Syracuse and to our partners in state government for recognizing the importance of investing in cities like ours. This kind of support helps ensure our residents receive the services and opportunities they expect from their local government.”

“On behalf of the Syracuse Common Council, I want to thank Senator May and the State Democratic Majority for fighting to include $30M for Syracuse in the Senate’s One-House Budget”, said Councilor Williams.  “This funding recognizes the real needs of our city- from infrastructure to housing and neighborhood revitalization and shows what strong partnerships among the levels of government can accomplish.  I am grateful to Senator May and her colleagues for making Syracuse a priority.” 

“Investing in cities solves challenges facing all New Yorkers: mitigating the threat of climate change, funding infrastructure and housing, and delivering quality municipal services,” said Syracuse City Auditor Alexander Marion. “I’m proud that Senator Rachel May has continued to fight for funding our community in the state budget and grateful that the State Senate recognizes our critical needs.”

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready