Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/Mayor Owens and Urban Jobs Task Force Partner to Advance Local Hiring
Listen
Mayor Owens and Urban Jobs Task Force Partner to Advance Local Hiring

Published on May 04, 2026

SYRACUSE, N.Y. – Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens joined regional partners to highlight early progress and opportunities tied to local hiring efforts connected to the I-81 Viaduct Project at an upcoming event hosted by the Urban Jobs Task Force (UJTF).

The event presented findings from a report on the Big Table Local Hiring Initiative, which outlines early outcomes, lessons learned, and opportunities connected to initial project contracts in partnership with the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT).

Findings from the report were developed based upon preliminary analysis of the I-81 Local Hire Initiative (January 2023 – August 2025), and include the following results:

Local residents comprised of 14.9% of the total project workforce, with 263 individual workers
There was a combined total of 157,729.51 hours worked by local residents, equaling 13.87% of the total hours worked on the project
Total wages for local residents exceeded $9,564,368, and comprised of 11.72% of the total wages paid for the project
A total of 50 apprenticeships have been hired and filled by local residents, totaling 31.45% of the total apprenticeship workforce

Featured speakers during the event included Mayor Owens, Elizabeth Parmley of NYSDOT, Ebony Farrow of Syracuse Build, Deka Eysaman of the Urban Jobs Task Force, and Al Marzullo of IBEW Local 43.

“This work is about making sure opportunity reaches every neighborhood in Syracuse,” said Mayor Owens. “As we move forward with the I-81 project, we are committed to creating clear pathways for residents to access good-paying jobs, build skills, and be part of the long-term growth of our city.

New York State Department of Transportation Regional Director Elizabeth Parmley said, “Under the leadership of Governor Kathy Hochul and New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner Marie Therese Dominguez, NYSDOT is proud to partner with the Urban Jobs Task Force on the Interstate 81 Viaduct Project’s Local Hire Initiative. The groundbreaking program has become a national model for states across the nation. Over 300 residents from the City of Syracuse and Onondaga Nation have worked on the project in good paying jobs that would not be possible without the relentless advocacy of the Urban Jobs Task Force and the collaboration of state and local workforce partners. The department will continue to support efforts to enhance workforce practices and invest in the communities that have been impacted most by the viaduct.”

Deka Eysaman, President of the Urban Jobs Task Force, said “The I-81 Workforce Equity Report demonstrates the meaningful progress and impact of the I-81 viaduct project on local hiring within our community and putting Syracuse residents to work, culminating from years of hard work and coordination with our partner organizations. The Urban Jobs Task Force is grateful to the City of Syracuse, NYSDOT, and all the I-81 Big Table coalition members for their support, and we look forward to this continued collaboration on the upcoming contracts as part of the I-81 viaduct project.”

The Big Table Local Hiring Initiative report will be made available to the public. For more information about the Big Table Local Hiring Initiative and workforce opportunities related to the I-81 project please visit urbanjobtaskforce.org.

# ## #

 

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus