Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/City Of Syracuse to Close Offices in Observance of Independence Day
Listen
City Of Syracuse to Close Offices in Observance of Independence Day

Published on June 30, 2026

Syracuse, N.Y. – City of Syracuse administrative offices will be closed for Independence Day on Friday, July 3.  
Trash and recycling collection will operate according to the regular schedule, which can be viewed at syr.gov/trash-recycling. 

 

The Department of Public Works yard waste self-drop off, located at 1200 Canal St., will be closed to the public on Friday, July 3. Emergency public works services can be reported to 315-448-8360. Cityline offices will be closed for calls, but residents can still submit service requests to Cityline via the SYRCityline app or online at syr.gov/cityline. 
 
Metered parking in the city will be free on Friday, July 3.

 

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus