Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/Department Of Engineering To Host Public Meeting For South Ave Bridge
Listen
Department Of Engineering To Host Public Meeting For South Ave Bridge

Published on March 20, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Engineering will host a public meeting to share information and gather feedback on the planned rehabilitation of the South Avenue (NY 175) Bridge over Onondaga Creek. The meeting will take place on Tuesday, March 24, from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Seals Community Center at Kirk Park, 300 W. Borden Ave.

“Investing in our infrastructure is critical to keeping Syracuse connected and safe,” said Mayor Sharon F. Owens. “Rehabilitating the South Avenue bridge will help preserve this important route for residents, improve safety for pedestrians and drivers, and ensure the structure continues serving our community for years to come.” 

Proposed work includes replacing bridge bearings and pedestals, rebuilding sidewalks and curbs, repairing masonry joints and concrete supports, sealing the bridge deck and painting existing girders.  

Residents are encouraged to attend the meeting to learn more about the project and provide feedback. online comments will be open from until April 10. Visit syr.gov/south-ave-bridge to learn more.

 

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready