Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/City of Syracuse Launches Lead Water Educational Materials
Listen
City of Syracuse Launches Lead Water Educational Materials

Published on January 14, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Water has developed new lead water public education materials to help residents understand the risks of lead exposure from pipes and steps they can take to protect their families. Developed in coordination with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH), the resources are a part of the City’s ongoing commitment to public health and safety.  
The City’s educational materials provide guidance on identifying potential sources of lead, steps to reduce exposure and what is being done.  
 
Where to Find Materials:  
 
Online: Visit syr.gov/EPA-Educational-Materials for downloadable resources.  
In Person: Materials available at City Hall, 233 E. Washington St., Syracuse, NY 13202; the Department of Water, 101 N. Beech St., Syracuse, New York 13210; and at public libraries and community centers.  
By Phone: Call 315-448-8354 for assistance or to request printed copies by mail.  
 
Exposure to lead in drinking water can cause serious health effects in all age groups. Infants and children can have decreases in IQ and attention span. Lead exposure can lead to new learning and behavior problems or exacerbate existing learning and behavior problems. The children of women who are exposed to lead before or during pregnancy can have increased risk of these adverse health effects. Adults can have increased risks of heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney or nervous system problems.  
 
The City of Syracuse Water Department treats drinking water with orthophosphate, a food-grade additive approved by the FDA and recognized by the EPA for reducing lead levels by coating lead service lines. The City continues to monitor water quality, is conducting regularly scheduled sampling collection as required by the EPA, is actively replacing lead lines during projects, and is developing a plan to replace all known lead service lines ahead of the EPA’s deadline.  
 
For more information about lead safety and the City’s ongoing commitment, visit syr.gov/lead-free-syracuse or contact the Department of Water at 315-448-8354.   
 

 

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready