Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / Parks & Recreation Press Releases/2026 Big Rig Day at Burnet Park
Listen
2026 Big Rig Day at Burnet Park

Published on April 16, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Parks and Recreation will host the 2026 Big Rig Day on Saturday, May 16 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Burnet Park, 299 Coleridge Ave. Children and their families are invited to climb in and explore some of the City’s biggest trucks from the Police, Fire, Public Works, Parks and Water departments, as well as other rigs from local companies and organizations.  
 
The event features a sensory hour from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. for guests who would prefer a quieter environment. During this hour, horns and sirens will not be used.  
 
“Big Rig Day is one of our favorite events each year,” said Parks Commissioner Syeisha Byrd. “The event is a chance for so many City departments to work together and create a meaningful experience for kids in our community.”  
 
The Parks Department Mobile Recreation team will be on-site with carnival-style games and activities, including an inflatable obstacle course. Guests are also welcome to participate in arts and crafts projects in the Burnet Arts & Crafts Facility.  
 
The event is free to attend. Refreshments will be available for purchase from Henry’s Hen House Concessions. Local non-profits and health organizations will also be on-site to provide information on available community resources.  
 
Parking will be available on the front side of the main loop of the park, from the Burnet Park Drive entrance to the main parking lot in front of the Arts & Crafts Facility and playground. Additional parking can be found on surrounding neighborhood streets. Posted street parking rules apply.  
 
For more information about Big Rig Day, visit www.syr.gov/Events/BigRigDay 
 
For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact theOffice of Communicationsby emailingpress@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Syracuse Parks & Recreation News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready