Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens Extends Draft Climate Action Plan Public Commenting Period

Published on April 30, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens is extending the public commenting period on the City’s draft inaugural Climate Action Plan. The extension will allow additional time for residents and community stakeholders to provide input and comments on the plan. The commenting portal can be accessed online at syr.gov/sustainable-syracuse and will remain open until Friday, May 8th.  

The Plan uses current climate science and the Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory (GHGI) reduction models to identify key strategic opportunities for climate action, implementation methods and continued educational efforts.  

“Public engagement is critical to the success of the Climate Action Plan and the greater Sustainable Syracuse Initiative,” said Mayor Owens. “We want to hear from everyone, whether you are a climate advocate or new to the concept, all feedback will help us build a path that prioritizes climate resiliency while addressing the current and future needs of our City.” 

The City conducted a public launch event, four public education meetings, and a public commenting period about the Climate Action Plan. Public comments collected during the community feedback period will inform revisions to the plan. A final version of the plan will be presented for review and adoption by the Syracuse Common Council later this year. 

This project has been funded in part by the Climate Smart Communities Grant Program, Title 15 of the Environmental Protection Fund through the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. 

For more information about the Sustainable Syracuse Initiative, visit syr.gov/sustainable-syracuse. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus