Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
City Reminds Residents to Renew Senior Property Tax Exemption Status

Published on August 05, 2026

The City of Syracuse is reminding eligible residents to renew their senior property tax exemption status. Renewal forms will be mailed to registered residents by the Department of Assessment and are expected to arrive in mailboxes in August. Renewal forms and all required documents must be submitted to the Department of Assessment before January 1, 2027, for registered residents to continue receiving reductions on their city, school, and county taxes for the 2027-2028 property tax year.

Residents must renew their senior property tax exemption status every year because reduction amounts are based on annual income, which can vary from year to year. Residents who are newly eligible or not already registered for the senior property tax exemption can download the application form and application instructions online at syr.gov/tax-exemptions. Residents can also request the application form be mailed to them by calling the Department of Assessment at 315-448-8270 or pick an application up in-person at City Hall. Applications must be mailed or delivered in-person to the City of Syracuse Department of Assessment by January 1, 2027.

Residents qualify to register for the senior property tax exemption by meeting the following criteria:

The property owner is 64 years or older and has owned the property for at least one year.
The property is the primary residence of the property owner.
The property owner has a combined owner income of less than $58,400 based on the previous calendar year (January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025).

Other Property Tax Exemptions

A property tax exemption is a reduction in the amount of property taxes a property owner pays for their primary residence based on qualifying factors including income, age, veteran and disability status, location of the property, and more. Property tax exemptions can help make it easier for qualifying residents to pay their property taxes each year.

The Department of Assessment offers five other property tax exemptions that qualifying residents may apply for: veterans, disability, flood zone, historical property, and property improvement. The Department of Assessment also offers resources and guidance for residents looking to apply for New York State Basic and Enhanced STAR credits.

For more information about which property tax exemptions they may qualify for and to learn how to apply for each type of exemption, residents should visit syr.gov/tax-exemptions. Residents can also call the Department of Assessment at 315-448-8270 during business hours with any questions or to request that an application form be mailed directly to their residence. Residents may also come in-person to City Hall to pick up applications or have a member of the Department of Assessment guide them through the application process.

The Department of Assessment is open from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Mondays and from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Tuesday through Friday. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

Site Footer
CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

Site Footer
CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
Site Footer
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus