Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces the Launch of America 250 Time Capsule Project

Published on July 02, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the launch of the Syracuse America 250 Time Capsule Project, a citywide initiative that will commemorate the 250th anniversary of the United States while celebrating Syracuse's longstanding contributions and commitment to democracy, equality, education, and civic engagement.

"This project is about preserving the story of who we are today while inspiring those who will call Syracuse home fifty years from now," said Mayor Owens. "As the United States marks its 250th anniversary, Syracuse has an extraordinary opportunity to recognize our City's unique place in the American story, from the enduring legacy of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy and the Onondaga Nation to our leadership in the abolitionist movement, the struggle for women's rights, and the continuing work to build a more inclusive and equitable community. I hope the capsule will help future generations better understand the values, aspirations, and resilience that defined Syracuse in 2026."

The City will install the time capsule in fall 2026 along the Creekwalk within Syracuse’s Inner Harbor neighborhood, where it will serve as a permanent public landmark recognizing one of the region's most historically significant places. Designed to remain sealed for fifty years, the capsule will be opened in 2076 as part of the nation’s 300th anniversary celebration.

The City will launch a feedback process inviting residents to suggest items for inclusion in the capsule. Potential contents may include letters to future generations, artwork and essays, photographs, oral histories, cultural artifacts, newspapers, environmental data, and digital records capturing life in Syracuse during 2026. Leading up to the time capsule’s installation this fall, community engagement opportunities will be held for residents to reflect on Syracuse’s past and present and envision its future. 

The project will be undertaken in partnership with the Onondaga Historical Association, the Syracuse City School District, and will include other educational, historical, cultural, and community organizations. The City will work with project partners to review feedback from residents that will guide the selection of materials and ensure the capsule reflects the diversity of Syracuse's people, neighborhoods, cultures, and experiences.

More information about the City's America 250 Time Capsule Project, including opportunities for public participation and artifact submissions, will be announced this summer.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus