Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
SPD and U.S. Marshals Announce Completion of Operation Orange

Published on July 27, 2026

The Syracuse Police Department, in partnership with the United States Marshals Service, announced the successful completion of Operation Orange, a coordinated enforcement effort aimed at identifying and addressing noncompliance within the sex offender registry in the City of Syracuse.  

The operation, which began on May 11, 2026, and concluded on July 10, 2026, included targeted compliance checks, verification of residential information, and investigated cases involving offenders who had failed to meet their legal reporting requirements. Through the operation, detectives with the Syracuse Police Department visited over 100 residences to conduct compliance checks which resulted in the identification of 85 noncompliant individuals. Arrest warrants were applied for and issued for the offenders; the majority have been arrested. The operation also provided updated information that strengthened the accuracy of the local registry. 

“Operation Orange delivered meaningful results for our community,” said Syracuse Police Chief Mark Rusin. “By completing this initiative, we have improved the reliability of the registry and reinforced the importance of compliance. Our partnership with the U.S. Marshals Service was critical to the operation’s success.” 

“Operation Orange underscores our ongoing commitment to upholding the highest standards of public safety,” said Mayor Sharon F. Owens. “This is just an example of the important work being done by our law enforcement partners to ensure compliance locally and nationwide.”  

The U.S. Marshals Service provided investigative support, personnel, and analytical resources, helping to locate noncompliant individuals and resolve outstanding cases. 

“The completion of Operation Orange demonstrates how effective federal–local collaboration can be,” said U.S. Marshal Christopher J. Amoia, Northern District of New York. “Ensuring that offenders follow registry requirements is essential to public safety, and we are proud to support the Syracuse Police Department in this effort.” 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus