Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Traffic & Infrastructure Press Releases/Syracuse Meets EPA Lead Standard for the 4th Consecutive Period
Listen
Syracuse Meets EPA Lead Standard for the 4th Consecutive Period

Published on August 20, 2026

The Department launches a lead pipe construction dashboard to track completion of service replacements across the City

The City of Syracuse Department of Water released the first half 2026 water sampling results that show Syracuse drinking water meets U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards for the fourth straight reporting period. The samples, collected by a third-party contractor and analyzed by an independent laboratory, were presented to the Environmental Protection Agency, New York State and Onondaga County health regulators. 

Under EPA public drinking water requirements, 103 samples were taken from homes with lead service lines from January to July of 2026. The 90th percentile results came in at 6 parts per billion (ppb), under the current EPA lead action level of 15 ppb.

To conduct sampling, the City continued working with an independent contractor for public water systems with specialized expertise in administering water sampling and mailed sampling kits with instructions to a database of participating properties. The locations were developed in close collaboration with State and County regulators. Consistent with EPA requirements, residents of participating properties collected tap water from kitchen or bathroom sinks and returned the samples directly to the testing laboratory by mail. An independent contractor sent results to participants, and the testing laboratory reported all data to the City.  

The Department of Water has also launched a new Lead Pipe Construction Dashboard, providing residents with real-time access to information about ongoing and upcoming service line replacement work across the City. This interactive tool enhances transparency, improves public awareness, and allows community members to easily track construction progress in their neighborhoods. The dashboard reflects the Department’s commitment to modernizing infrastructure and ensuring safe, reliable drinking water for all residents. To view the dashboard, residents can visit syr.gov/construction-dashboard.  

“The launch of our new Lead Pipe Construction Dashboard marks an important step forward in transparency and public accountability,” said Robert Brandt, Commissioner of Water. “Combined with the latest round of sampling, these updates demonstrate our ongoing commitment to meeting and exceeding federal standards. We will continue to invest in data-driven tools and proactive monitoring to ensure residents have clear, reliable information about their water quality and the progress of our lead pipe replacement work.”

Exposure to lead in drinking water can cause serious health effects in all age groups. Infants and children can have decreases in IQ and attention span. Lead exposure can lead to new learning and behavior problems or exacerbate existing learning and behavior problems. The children of women who are exposed to lead before or during pregnancy can have increased risk of these adverse health effects. Adults can have increased risks of heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney or nervous system problems.  

The City of Syracuse Department of Water treats drinking water with orthophosphate, a food-grade additive approved by the FDA and recognized by the EPA for reducing lead levels by coating lead service lines. The Department is also working with a technical assistance consultant in collaboration with the EPA to comprehensively optimize the corrosion control system where possible.

For more information about lead safety and the City’s ongoing commitment, visit syr.gov/lead-free-syracuse or contact the Department of Water at 315-448-8354.

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Office of Communications
Tagged as:
Cityline, Traffic & Infrastructure News
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

Site Footer
CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

Site Footer
CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
Site Footer
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus