Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
City of Syracuse to Host Job Fair on May 11

Published on April 30, 2026

The City of Syracuse is hosting a job fair on Monday, May 11, 2026, from 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the Bob Cecile Community Center, 174 West Seneca Turnpike, Syracuse, NY 13205. The job fair will focus on hiring for seasonal positions with the Department of Parks, Recreation and Youth Programs. Information will also be available for the more than 30 open full-time positions, and representatives from participating City departments will be present to review resumes and answer questions about the City’s hiring process. Applications will be available on-site for all seasonal and full-time opportunities currently open throughout the City’s departments, offices, and divisions.

“Our workforce is critical as we expand services to meet the needs of a growing city,” said Mayor Sharon F. Owens. “If you or someone you know is looking for a seasonal position that supports our Parks summer programming or a full-time opportunity to serve our community, I encourage everyone to come to our job fair to learn more and join the City team.”

City departments with open full-time opportunities include Water, Public Works, Neighborhood and Business Development, Law, Human Resources, Finance, Syracuse Police Department (Civilian), and more.

The Parks Department is seeking applicants to fill dozens of seasonal positions as it approaches its summer programming season. Individuals will have the opportunity to apply for multiple positions across aquatics, athletics, and recreation programming. These positions include, but are not limited to:

Lifeguard
Water Safety Instructor
Trails Maintenance Worker
Adult Athletics Program Assistant
Mobile Recreation Summer Aide
Arts and Crafts Summer Aide

“We have a variety of positions available for residents who want to make a difference in the community and work on a flexible schedule,” said Commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Youth Programs Syeisha Byrd. “From programming to grounds maintenance and night security, we offer seasonal roles to fit your lifestyle.”

Limited parking will be available at Cecile Community Center via the Midland Avenue entrance and across the street at Meachem Field. Attendees should bring printed copies of their resume and wear professional attire. To view and apply for all current job openings at the City of Syracuse, visit syr.gov/jobs.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus