Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
City of Syracuse - Home - Logo
BUSINESS
Sub-menu
LIVING
Sub-menu
GOVERNMENT
Sub-menu

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
You Are Here :
Home / City Press Releases/Mayor Owens Announces Search for New Commissioner of Finance
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces Search for New Commissioner of Finance

Published on March 09, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the City of Syracuse is launching a search for a new Commissioner of Finance. Mayor Owens appointed Diane Nastri, Assistant Director of Accounting, to serve as Interim Commissioner starting March 4th. 

The City is seeking a Commissioner of Finance with demonstrated leadership experience in municipal finance operations. As the City’s chief fiscal officer, the Commissioner is responsible for the overall financial management, stewardship, and integrity of the City of Syracuse. Reporting to Mayor Owens and working closely with the Common Council, the Commissioner oversees revenue collection, treasury operations, accounting, debt management, payroll, financial reporting, licensing administration, and internal financial controls.  

View the full job description and apply for the position at syr.gov/finance-commissioner. Applications are due by Monday, March 30.  

The Department of Finance consists of the City Payment Center, Bureau of Accounts, and Bureau of Financial Operations. The Department maintains the financial activity of the City, including disbursing all City funds, maintaining accounting and reporting, collecting payments for local taxes, bills, and fees, overseeing capital projects and grants, and administering City payroll. 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
QUICK LINKS
2026 Tentative Assessment Roll(PDF, 109MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus
Ready