Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces Adoption of Inaugural Climate Action Plan

Published on July 14, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the official adoption of the City of Syracuse’s inaugural Climate Action Plan (CAP) for Community and Municipal Operations. As a continuation of the Sustainable Syracuse Initiative, the CAP identifies strategies for the City to increase climate resiliency and quality of life in the fields of energy, transportation, climate adaption, and the natural environment. The Plan includes climate change and emission reduction models that target adherence to New York State climate policy goals.

“I am proud to introduce the City's first Climate Action Plan and grateful to all who contributed to its completion and adoption,” said Mayor Owens. “The CAP and its future iterations will serve as a roadmap for the City as we work to achieve the level of climate resiliency and sustainability required to improve the quality of life for all residents.”

Climate goals outlined by the CAP include energy management, alternative mobility infrastructure, climate change education, expansion of cooling shelter access, flood mitigation avenues, and implementation of the Urban Forestry Master Plan. Visit syr.gov/CAP to view the full document.

As part of the launch, the Sustainable Syracuse Initiative has compiled climate vulnerability resources that combine environmental, infrastructure, and demographic data to show where climate-related risks for Syracuse residents may be greatest. These resources include three Climate Vulnerability Interactive Maps – action, heat risk, and flood risk – that provide information on the causes of local climate vulnerabilities and the methods, location, and availability of various mitigation resources throughout the City. Visit syr.gov/climate-maps to learn more.

The City’s Sustainable Syracuse Initiative and its programming is funded in part by the Climate Smart Communities Grant Program, Title 15 of the Environmental Protection Fund through the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC). The CAP was created with this funding in partnership with C&S Companies, Prospect Hill, and Environmental Design & Research (EDR). The Climate Vulnerability Interactive Maps were created by students in the Syracuse Community Geography program.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus