Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / Parks & Recreation Press Releases/City Parks to Host Public Meetings for Potential Playground Projects
Listen
City Parks to Host Public Meetings for Potential Playground Projects

Published on June 02, 2026

The City of Syracuse Department of Parks, Recreation & Youth Programs will host public meetings to gather feedback on potential future construction projects in three city parks: Barry Park, Elmwood Park and Cummings Field.

Each meeting will consist of an interactive community engagement session where residents can select potential design options for new playground features. There will also be an opportunity to provide feedback on potential design options for a picnic pavilion at Elmwood Park and a picnic shelter and multi-use events stage at Cummings Field.

“Our playgrounds should reflect the communities who use them,” said Syeisha Byrd, Commissioner. “We encourage you to bring your families to participate in these feedback sessions. Your child’s ideas could help shape a generation of play in our parks.”

The public meeting for the Barry Park project will be held on Thursday, June 11, 2026, at 6:00 p.m. at Barry Park, 600 Broad Street, 13210.

The public meeting for the Elmwood Park project will be held on Tuesday, June 18, 2026, at 6:00 p.m. Elmwood Park, 919 Glenwood Ave, 13207.

The public meeting for the Cummings Field project will be held on Thursday, June 25, 2026, at 6:00 p.m. at Cummings Field, 121 Edtim Road, 13206.

In the event of inclement weather, any rain relocations will be announced via the Parks Department social media pages.

For those who wish to provide feedback but are unable to attend are welcome to fill out the online engagement forms on the project pages linked below:

Barry Park Project: syr.gov/Barry-Park-Playground

Elmwood Park Project: syr.gov/Elmwood-Park-Playground

Cummings Field Project: syr.gov/Cummings-Field-Playground

 

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
Syracuse Parks & Recreation News
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus