Skip to main content
Quick Links:
Mayor Sharon F. OwensBids & Notices
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
English
is your current preferred language.
BUSINESS
LIVING
GOVERNMENT

Select the Escape key to close the menu. Focus will then be set to the first menu item.

Search
Home / City Press Releases/
Listen
Mayor Owens Announces Annual Tour for Safe and Healthy Housing

Published on June 02, 2026

Syracuse Mayor Sharon F. Owens announced the Division of Code Enforcement will host Healthy Housing 101, an annual tour to learn more about maintaining safe and healthy housing conditions in the city of Syracuse. The event will take place on Tuesday, June 16 at 324 Academy Place. Tours will take place from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. with a break in the event between 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.

“Each year, Code Enforcement hosts Healthy Housing 101 to share information and resources that help residents maintain safe and healthy homes,” said Mayor Owens. “We want the community to know that our Code Enforcement professionals are here to support them. During the event, you can speak directly with City staff, tour a vacant home with an inspector to learn about common code violations, and access information about available programs and resources.”

City Code Inspectors will lead tours throughout the vacant home, which is owned by the Greater Syracuse Land Bank, to discuss common health and safety issues and how to address them. Topics will include lead, exterior violations such as peeling and chipping paint, overgrowth, trash and debris, and interior violations related to heat, water, smoke detectors and more.

Community agencies providing information and resources include the Greater Syracuse Land Bank, Onondaga County, Home HeadQuarters, CNY Lead Testing, Salvation Army, Lead Safe CNY and PEACE Inc. There will be City of Syracuse representatives and information from Code Enforcement, the Central Permit Office, Zoning Administration, SYRCityline, Fire Prevention, Police, Neighborhood and Business Development, Water and Municipal Violations Bureau. A rain date is scheduled for Thursday, June 18. To register, visit goto.syr.gov/healthy-housing.

For Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, members of the press should contact the Office of Communications by emailing press@syr.gov.

 

Related Information
Communications
Media Relations
Media Relations Policy
Tagged as:
City News & Press Releases
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Email
Back to top

CONTACT US

City Hall
233 East Washington Street
Syracuse, NY 13202

Phone: (315) 448-8005
Send Message

8:00 am - 4:30 pm, Mon. - Fri.

CONNECT WITH US
Visit Our Facebook
Visit Our Twitter
Visit Our Instagram
Watch Us On YouTube
Visit Us On Linked In
Join Us On Nextdoor
Visit Our TikTok
QUICK LINKS
2026 Final Assessment Roll(PDF, 155MB)
City News
Open Data Portal
Public Meetings Calendar
SYRCityline
Work for Syracuse
Data Privacy & Security | Translation Disclaimer | Website Disclaimer | Accessibility Disclaimer | Photo Series: Joshua Wilcox
© 2026 City of Syracuse | Powered by Granicus