>> So I mean I fully comprehend that we don't want to make projects econom e economically unfeasible right and and we say that at the same time as we're entering budget negotiations at which point we have a $20 million projected if not more deficit. So at what point do we think about the economic feasibility of our city and try to balance that with the economic feasibility of our projects? >> And I think it's a point that's extremely well taken counselor. I think it is one of the things that we also are not taking lightly at all in these discussions. I think it is one of the reasons why too what is not being asked and what the legislation has not presented is to look at the entire road closure knowing that we need additional time to understand both the effects for projects going forward, not just this one today, but also working on uh an approach that we think is is something that could work um in the way we're looking at it, but also the dialogue with with you all as the council. So, I think that that is one of the reasons why we realize that we want to to do this expeditiously. It's part of the reason why the 90 days is being presented. The the road closure extended past that 90 days will require also council authorization. Um, your point is is well made. It is something we're looking at with our fee schedule and not just this particular instance. I think we're talking about our fees as a whole across the city and across the board and some of which are far out antiquated have have not been updated in quite some time. I think this was really an approach uh to move in the right direct right direction. Um there also one of the questions that we've been looking at is um last year it was when the new fee schedule was put into place and again it really has increase both the refundable but non-refundable um that fee schedule as as it has stood um aside from the road cut permit also has just allowed us to be able to collect more from this project and from other projects going forward. So I would say it was a step in the right direction that we made last year and one I think that that again is a positive step for the city. But what we did not initially anticipate is an example with a full road closure. And so one of the things we want to do is think about at a macro level does this have unintended consequences on development in the city of Syracuse going forward. >> So is this is this the first project where it's a road closure happen or this outside of the or is this an anomaly? Basically, >> it it's it we don't see this often. So, and and as I said, there's three, >> but this is not the first >> since we've adopted the new fee schedule, this is the first project I'm aware of where it has involved a a closure of the road. Um, so, Eric, even if you just have to do some back of the napkin math here, can we put numbers to this? How much are we talking if it is a full two-year closure, what would the fees be with that full two-year closure based upon our current fee schedule? Now, >> what would it be if we left nothing else? We changed nothing made no other >> arrangements. >> So, so we have we've done analysis and we have looked at this and I think one of the big things that we are looking at is how you account for the roadway that's being closed itself. Now the the approach that we have taken is that it is the roadway from curb to curb uh of the area that's being shut down on comtock. So that area um and we can get you uh we've looked at the the numbers. It is around 2.6 million in terms of again from curb to curb on comtock for the portion that's being closed down. Um and that is again part of the reason why is that the way it's structured around construction staging is that when an area is closed down and it's used for a staging purpose, it renews every 14 days. And so what we're talking about is due to the construction timeline is that that 14 days is compounded. Um and so that that's where ultimately you get to that cumulative total that's in the millions of dollars. But to answer your question from curb to curb as we've looked at comtock it's approximately 2.6 million. >> And Eric, why did you go curb to curb instead of sidewalk to sidewalk? So I think uh let's say no it's okay. I think well let me I I think what I will do is we we can provide more information and insight into ultimately the methodology that was used to arrive and and why the curb to curb and and and the other thing I would say I realize we're having a committee meeting and discussion on this today. This is certainly a conversation that I and others will make ourselves available um to really look at and we'll share the information that has been requested around the existing permits and the fees um but um so that but that is ultimately again how we were arriving at that number. >> Good afternoon Maos engineering department. Uh the reason why it was decided um 2.6 6 million was there's um work zone tra um there's a work worksheet that the developer has to implement. So they at that time they were you know they were just showing the road. So with the road we estimated $2.6 million. The question will be will they use more than the road you know will they do the curb behind the curbing and all from rightway to rightway. So that's why we came up to be 2.6 cuz initially it was just the road. supposed to be closed down. >> Well, we're going to close the sidewalks, too, right? >> Well, that's the thing now. If they're going to close down the from property line to property line, it expands. >> So, this is the time to go back to that initial document and get it reviewed and get the actual rather than the >> So, the intent is how this works, this whole permit fees and everything is we give it to the contractor first, the applicant. They fill it out, you know, and we rely on their information, how much they're going to occupy the right of way. We base the fee off of that. The applicant pays for it and then the enforcement comes in. So if they say we're only going to occupy the cur, you know, from the road, then that's how it's based on. But if the enforcement comes in and we stop by the site and we see it's from right ofway to right ofway, then the fee is going to increase even more. But that's how it's based. That's how it based the 2.6 million and all the stuff. But >> we can assume if there's tower cranes on both sides of the street, we're not going to let anybody walk on the sidewalks. Am I Am I right there? >> Sidewalks will be closed, too. >> Closed the sidewalks as well as Okay. >> Can you show me uh how the traffic is going to change? Would with that block closed? How are we going to reconfigurate the traffic pattern? We've detourred. Yeah, we've detourred traffic to Walnut and up to uh what's the Marshall. Um and we've uh we've replaced sidewalks as well and improved various sidewalks that were damaged in order to make sure that the walkways are um clear and that sidewalks are fully replaced and all. >> So, are you going to do four-way stop signs or are you going to have traffic light as normal? >> We're just redirecting traffic to the existing traffic measures that are in place for those blocks. >> And what are safe what safeties you have in place? We had a a tragedy last year. Two people were killed near a dump truck. So, what are the safety precautions that we're using so pedestrians don't accidentally walk in that area? >> So, we've closed the sidewalks and the street >> and they are fenced in. >> They are. And we have flag people and uh standing by at both entrance and exit as well as flag people anytime a construction vehicle leaves the construction site. So, um we've got a number of individuals up there responsible for the safety. >> Counselor. Um, two hallway stops were added up on Ostrom to accommodate the traffic coming up the hill. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, CNS engineers produced a vehicular pedestrian traffic plan which was reviewed by city engineers office before being put into place. >> Erica, at what point do we see the final plan to see how the fees are going to the fees are going to be incremented or not or what's going to happen? >> Sure. I I think that um right now there was the initial submission that did uh show and contemplate the site work that was anticipated. But I know that what what I think Mir just to build on what he was sharing. There is the piece where also that the project under goes inspection. So we do have site inspectors that are coming out. There's the enforcement piece. That's where the the refundable piece of this comes into play. So we we then compare that to the submission that was made to the city for the site plan. If there are changes or if the project ultimately that there's a change in scope or something that was unanticipated, that is something as well that we look at overall that site plan. All of that drives the final final calculation and ultimately the final project near completion in terms of if there's any modifications to that fee schedule. So we have the preliminary one and that was the information that we can share um in terms of how how it was looked at um from the the way the current fee schedule is structured. >> So did you and I may have not understood this correctly. Did you say before that the fees the amount of the fees could be altered for some kind of whatever reason? What what do we what's the consideration? >> Yep. That we >> So it's um there are there's times where it's like a unit pricing. So for example, it's some of it's based on linear feet or some of it's based on square footage. So there is a methodology that that outlines this and that's information we can sh certainly share with you. Um I just for simplicity sake, I'll give the example. If you have a 100 feet of sidewalk um that is ultimately going to be um disturbed or closed or or destroyed, you're measuring the linear amount of feet that's anticipated. There's times where there may be a modification to that. So instead of 100 ft, it may be 80. And so ultimately what you may do is that that will change that unit pricing calculation. And so that that's just one of the things we have the initial anticipation and that's the the fee schedule that's broken out. Okay. >> If something changes or again we're on site and we inspect and there's a difference from the original distance or feet or plan or things like that, you can change that that unit pricing. So I was just looking at Mir to make sure that was an accurate depiction. But it is that it shows here's the amount of feet or here's the square footage, here's the unit pricing, and then that's what what derange this will change too. >> It can. Yes. And it really just depends on the way and that's part of the inspections and looking at the project and how the site's being used. I just like to state and related to the the the road versus the overall rightway. The university is committed to replacing in this whole project area, the sidewalks, the curb line, mill and paving, milling and repaving the road as well. So everything in the vicinities of these projects is going to be replaced as new by the time the project's completed. >> Everything but our lost property taxes. Just to double check some real numbers here. So this project has a plus or minus 30,000 square feet scope at 150 to per square foot. Am I reading that right? There's 150 per square foot 200. >> Yeah, >> it's 30,000 square feet scope of the project. >> All right. Um I just I just want to say that the 30,000 it looks like that's the square footage of from rightway to right ofway the whole block that's 30,000. >> Uh when we estimated the like I said >> from curb or from sidewalk >> it's past the sidewalk >> past the sidewalk. >> So I would say the exact number that's plus and minus probably that's what I'm getting at. I mean SU will probably let you know the exact numbers if you go from property line to property because they have the survey. Okay. >> Um, but it looks about right. That's the 30,000 square ft. >> Mhm. >> That whole block. Now, the that's how you base the fee. >> Okay. >> So, >> and $500 per fee schedule, 200 per square feet, 52 assessed per 40day, 14-day periods. That's kind of what we're looking at in terms of scope. >> If you calculate Yeah. If you calculate the >> Okay. >> for two years. Yes. >> I'm just trying to figure out what formula we're working off of. So, we're talking about real numbers. >> We're really talking about >> that's the formula for two years. Um, $500 for for if you divide it by 14-day increments, >> you end up and times it by 30,000, that's the number, whatever you have there. I don't know what if you have a total, but it's >> I'm I'm getting uh $600,000 essentially for each 90day construction period. I I I have to get a calculator, but I was but I think I think what we can do is we can share I know I mentioned the 2.6 million and just what that methodology was and and again we can look there is because of the fact that it does have that unit pricing. I think what we just have to verify is the numbers that are being used for the total area that's being utilized or impacted um for the project. I think a question that that's in my mind is um how much of city staff is um how much time are city staff spending up there between inspections and the other um employees that are up there? How much time are they up there? What are their salaries? Let's figure out a breakdown of what it's costing the city to do our due diligence on this project, too. Um because I don't want to see us losing money. >> Sure. >> In wages and whatnot. So, um, there's elements of that, some of which are harder to to really quantify depending on the number of hours, but one piece I will say too, and and this is not yet been accumulated in terms of the total amount of of revenue or permit collected, um, is the the building plans are still under review. So, the central permit office also charges and has a fee as part of their plan review process. That is one of the things that account for staff time that's being put into the project and examining those things. So, we have not, we're still in the process of reviewing those building permits. Um, but one of the things that we can do is get a sense of what what approximately that number would look like. I know review is still underway, so we haven't finished it yet. >> It's about a million dollars. The building permit, >> I'm sorry, say that again. >> The building permit is about a million bucks for the two buildings. >> And that that is a standard process that we take with every project and but it's one of the ways that account for the fact city time and resources are being used as part of that that review. >> Thank you. >> I I think related to that is um you know, you mentioned million-dollar permit fee. Um, are you getting what you need from the city in an expeditious manner? And >> yeah, I'm glad you asked that because through this project like for everyone from zoning to the engineering central permit office has been fantastic. They we we but we were put on a very tight timeline. We sat down at the very beginning with Jake and his folks and laid out a plan um for how we could step through each of the different uh approvals necessary and it it has all gone really well. >> Thank you. Glad to hear that. So when do we get to see what we need so we can get this moving from this direction? >> So I know that there's information we've talked about today that what we'll do is I I will compile it from a few colleagues as well, but I'll I'll be happy to share the information right now which was a combination of um fees around revenue collected so far. Um a breakdown of some of the permits that have been involved in in the project >> per project. >> Yes. And what I can do is per project as well. Just understanding that there is there is a a quite a bit of construction taking place. So, but this is the one particularly that involves the road closure and um the the one again that I think is the most unique situation. What we'll do is we'll share that information. Um we also have again the methodology around the per unit cost uh with the fee schedule. And so again, we can provide the information that was used to to derive the numbers that we talked about on our side. Um trying to think if there was other information that we that we talked about. I think what we'll do and counselor, we'll we'll look to do that and share that in the in the coming days. Um and and the thing I would just say too again a dialogue that we are more than happy to really continue and and continue to be focused on um the 90 days would permit to take us from the end of March through the end of June with the fully understanding that there is ultimately going to be a more extended period of closure uh that we would be coming back to the council for. >> Okay. We will wait for any other one with questions. We will wait for that information and get the uh get the item rolling. >> Okay. >> Okay. Sure. >> I think I think it's it's just just as we establish the culture here of making sure that every mo everything is moving expeditiously, we want to make sure you move expeditiously, but give give us what we have asked and we should be good. >> Sure. And and council, I really appreciate the time from you and from everyone here at the table. I you know, I would say that uh road closures is not something we take lightly. It was something you know I think it when we had looked at it with the project team um and I there was a reference made to to some of the incident that had taken place before where there was an unattended loss of life around when there's a high amount of construction and just what that means for pedestrians and for drivers. So safety I think has been of the utmost importance. I think we also have been again looking at and focused on the fact of um construction and development that this is certainly good things to be happening within our city. I think that it was one of the things that we I I really do believe we made a step in the right direction with the fee schedule that we developed when there are things that were unanticipated or unintended with this unique scenario because there's not any changes that are being there's not anything related to the other two projects um that that have caused this sort of like can we take a step back and be thoughtful around the impact of this. It really is this particular project. The other ones the fee schedules are there. The project teams are abiding by those fee schedules. It really is the Commtock related project when I I will say in my time with the city, it's unique to have two construction sites and two buildings being built on either side of a street. And part of the reason why is we want to make sure there is not a tragedy like what happened last year around anyone being impacted because of the fact that they may be attempting to walk through an area where there's active construction sites. And so what's happening right now is you have two sites across the street from each other actively that construction equipment because they're both both buildings are being constructed by the project team here in Hanner Hoy. They are crossing comtock is it fair to say dozens of times a day. So I think that it's just there >> continuously >> continuously. Yeah. Whether it's concrete trucks being delivered, uh tractor trailers with light gauge wall panels, um concrete pumps, it's uh it's essentially a flurry of activity daily. And the cranes, both cranes cross over