>> So when when did uh this project commence? >> Um when did we start? Um >> we probably started about two months ago where the first shovel went in the ground. >> Okay. Okay. And um I I take everything that you need from the city is in order, right? You've got your permits, you got everything you need, >> all of that stuff. >> Yes. So, right right now, we are in the process of of uh we're doing third party review on the building permits for Waverly and Comtock. We've uh all of the city com city departments have com provided comments and uh Labella is closing out that process right now with the with the central permit office. We >> but we do have site and foundation permits allowing us to start construction. Okay. Um, so let give me a second. Let me turn to Eric quickly. Eric, or is it Oh, what just happened? >> My phone. >> I think the I think the computer went to sleep, so he was just uh going to turn it back on here. Um, but yes, counselor, sorry. >> Okay. So, so from from this project, what what have from the liability waiver, how's that been in terms of implementation of it? >> Sure. you know, all of that through from the city's p side. >> Yes. So, there's a number of different permits um and and permissions that the the project team and Syracuse University have come before the city on. Uh that includes a few different things. So, uh it includes the parking meter rental is one element for any portion of a roadway where the parking meter spaces are being taken up. City has a process and a calculation by which uh that needs to be calculated. The payments from the project team and from Hanner Hoy have been paid. Uh there's also a road cut uh permit application. Um this is and I think part of the conversations that we've had leading up to this meeting is that over the past year uh the engineering department as well as other city departments did work with the common council on making modifications to the project fee schedule. Um part of that was looking at both the refundable and non-refundable fees uh in order to examine projects in which there's work happening in the right of way. Uh there have been times in projects in the past where not all of the work uh from a full restoration standpoint had been completed. And so in working with the uh the city engineering team and other members, um this was designed to really provide more particularly on the the refundable piece of as long as you restore the right of way and if you're able to restore the the area accordingly, there is a way in which the project team, developer or the general contractor can recoup those funds. It's part of that process and we did look and and I think really uh tried to be thoughtful around that approach. But one of the things that was not contemplated at the time when we were developing that fee schedule is the particular instance in this project that we're talking about which is a upwards of a 2-year road closure. and ultimately what that means when you were to examine shutting down um a right of way and a roadway. And and I think it it may be helpful in a moment for the project team to talk about some of what was leading up to the the need for this roadway to be closed because it has two active construction sites on either side of of Comtock. Um but in terms of the background that piece and this is the first project, first time we've encumbered this or encountered this this situation where we have a full closure of the roadway. Um it's it's under the terminology of project staging. We have had examples where you may need to close down a portion of a road or a lane of a road. Um and there's some project staging that may take place off of private property and into the right of way. So as part of that calculation, it does look and examine um that sort of um there's a methodology in terms of how that gets calculated. Some of that too is that it renews every 14 days. And so in this particular case and with this particular project, one of the things that we've really been looking at is, you know, we have times where you may need to close down a portion of the right of way for a for a period of time for a phase of the project. We haven't had a situation like this in which you have a 100% closure of a full road for the entire length of the project upwards of two years into 2027. And so as part of that conversation, um, one of the things that's been done in the immediate term was a 90-day, um, permission to be able to close down the road, something that is afforded in the charter, uh, and the DPW commissioner has the ability to approve. Anything longer than that 90 days does require common council approval. Um, it is and that ultimately was the legislation that uh that was presented and and and is um was submitted for consideration. Um, the other piece here that I would just say and just certainly speaking on behalf of of the administration, uh, one of the things we certainly want to be able to do is have a dialogue and continue talking with the council about um, looking at when we have a project in this sort of situation involving a full road closure and again a number of reasons contributing to what this road closure entails. Um, how to look at that and look at it really from a global perspective for projects going forward. We understand that this is likely not going to be the last time in which a project may need to close down a street for a period of time because of the fact that you have a limited amount of construction staging that can happen on the private property. So really uh what we're looking at is when this impacts the right of way. Um and so that has been a piece where part of the reason for the request is simply for 90 days is there's a number of different dialogue and discussions that we want to continue to have both with the council. We're also uh in a position where the university has brand new leadership that I know has been widely covered uh and publicized. Um a new administration as well that is at this point still in the process of working through a number of things. So um so I think our goal today and I'm happy to take additional questions but for the context and I hope it's helpful counselor. Um, thank you. What was never considered initially when the council adopted this last year is a a situation like the one we have before us involving a full road closure for what is going to be upwards of two two years. >> So I think my question it might be to our our colleague from Hayner Hoy in a city like New York City in Manhattan do they close streets to do construction in Manhattan? >> I can't answer that because I don't do any work in Manhattan. So, I'm not sure >> based upon your knowledge of the industry. >> Uh, I'm I'm sure they close sidewalks and lanes in portions of the city, but again, I I haven't done any work in New York City, so I can't advise on that. >> Is there a way to do this construction without a road closure? >> It certainly would be possible. Um, our concern is that because we're doing two high-rise buildings across the street from each other, both buildings being built to the property lines or pretty pretty close to the property lines and the need for us to be bringing in dozens of tractor trailers of materials on a daily basis and swinging tower cranes over the top of the street in an area with lots of college students and other vehicular traffic. you know, our concern would be the safety of somebody making a poor decision and crossing through a work zone where we're unloading, you know, large volumes of material with tower cranes overhead. Um, that section of comtock is a one-way street. Um, so it it would only be traffic u heading to the north away from the university and you know, we're just, you know, our feeling is that it would potentially invite unnecessary risk to potentially allow somebody to walk up that street with all of the construction activity that would be happening on both sides of the road. So, so first is 90 90 days and are you all set council? >> Yeah, for now. >> First is 90 days and then uh Eric, you said this that there may in a in a larger lens maybe two years, right? >> Yes. So, so the the legislation that was submitted for for consideration under the request was to um so at the end of March uh is when we anticipate the initial administrative road closure. that 90 days will expire. Um, in what we we are looking at this certainly from a number of different angles. We want to continue talking and speaking with the with the council about, you know, understanding again the the unique uh project before us and the fact that this won't be the last time that we see this. The 90-day closure um is something that has to be approved by council, but would allow us additional time to work through um both looking at the calculation and looking at the plan of how we examine this this unique situation. Um but knowing that the project itself, the construction will go past that additional 90 days. This would really take us through the end of June. Um any additional extension is also something that the council would have to approve. And so the thought process behind the 90 days is allowing us more time to be able to work through some of the different options. Something that we would discuss directly with with the council um in terms of how when that road cut permit the the road cut itself has not been issued. And so that's where that fee schedule is ultimately um going to be finalized as part of that that road schedule or road cut schedule. There is a number of different fees uh in terms of both refundable and non-refundable that the project has already paid. So there are fees and including the parking. I mentioned the parking spaces as well as liability waiverss for closing down the street. The city has been paid and has collected those. Um but >> first for the first 90 days >> for the first 90 days. >> How much is that? So in total the what we have is and I will say it's broken into both um refundable and non-refundable. So I just want >> do you have a hard copy of that to be able to provide to us? >> I can share the what I have is the breakdown of the each of the individual permits. The other thing I know that the focus here primarily today is around comtock and and Waverly. There is an additional project that's under construction uh involving a new hotel uh on University Avenue. Now that does not involve a full road closure. So that one certainly is one more that's more straightforward based on uh our our fee schedule and structure. But so some of the information the permit office was able to provide me also included the uh the hotel project that's underway. >> All these three projects started n 30 90 day at 30 uh >> right >> our project started roughly two months ago maybe a bit longer >> two month ago >> and the Ostrom residence hall started probably about three or four months before that then the hotel that is in the process >> correct and and they are technically three separate projects so they each have unique timelines. Um, but what is unique about the Comtock related project and the the two dorms that are shown is this is the one that ultimately is requiring a full road closure for for that period of time. >> I mean the projects, the timeline and the payout. >> Yes, I can I get you the listing of of what the the permit information is in each one of those additionally. So so the one that has not been issued is the road cut and that ultimately is where the some of the the fee schedule we would be able to finalize. It is also very standard uh since we've implemented the new schedule. Some of these numbers are finalized near or upon completion of the project and then we're able to finalize that based on the final scope that was finished within the right of way to make sure that we have those numbers right based on the way the formula is set up. >> Okay. >> Question. >> I'm so sorry. Clarification. So they have a right-of-way permit and they have a liability >> so permit. >> Yep. So a liability waiver is what ultimately allows for the road closure to take place. >> So that's what we're doing now. >> Yes. Okay. What has not been issued for this project in question is the um road cut permit. So ultimately that road cut is where um that is one of the things that's afforded for in the in the project schedule. >> But all other permits pursuant to the start of this project have been issued >> and paid for. We have a foundation permit and a site permit that allowed us to start construction. The building permit is under review. We started construction before the building design was finalized. >> So, uh the building permit has uh been submitted. We have comments back. The design professionals are responding to the comments at which point we would make the final payment for the general building permit in the very near future. >> Yeah. >> But we have paid for a foundation permit. We have paid for a a site permit. And and it is common uh for projects once the footings foundations once the configuration configuration of the building has been finalized when building permits may not be issued yet but footings and foundations is a way to get that work started. And the liability waiver is what allows for the road closure to take place. >> So Eric, walk me through the liability waiver. So we've got $75 fee, >> right? Correct. >> And then we've got down at the bottom temporary removal of existing parking meters, $1,500 per meter. Correct. >> And those are the only two things that have been paid >> at this point. That is correct. We have the additional the road. >> Do you expect dumpsters on the site? >> So I would look to the project team in terms of the specifics for >> there are dumpsters on the site. I don't believe there's any dumpsters in the right ofway. >> Okay. Um construction trailers. >> There is a trailer that is on the corner of Commtock and Waverly that would probably be encroaching in the right ofway. >> Okay. um machinery. >> Uh we have equipment that is using currently the road is closed. So we have we're building a tower crane as we speak. So there is a crane in the street assisting with the construction of that tower crane. >> Okay. Do you have any material staging? >> There is no material staging in the right. >> Didn't you tell us you needed the entire right away for staging? >> We will. Yes. But as I I I don't know if you're asking me at the moment or at the during the course of construction. >> Both. Um, advertising, signage, >> not in the right way. >> Scaffolding, >> not in the right of way. >> Um, all right. So, Eric, at what point do they come back with an amended liability waiver for each of the items that we just talked about? So, it is one of the things I think that we our intention and our goal and what we have asked is part of the 90-day process is that we would have the ability to look at the scope of work being proposed with the project within the comtock portion. Part of the reason why we have not collected or nor issued the um road cut permit is because some of those things we are actively making sure we have all the information from a full scope of how the right of way is being used. And then part of the conversation that we would look to have is before that road cut permit is issued, we have an agreement in place on the the fees associated with that. >> So that kind of goes against what's in the legislation in terms of checks being payable at the time of submission of the liability waiver. So there is an initial payment that is made but and I just want to make sure because I if we're joined by engineering um there are times where depending on the scope of the project if there's any adjustments that are made that that initial payment then can be re um revised or modified. And so that was the the only point I was making going back to what I said a moment ago. there is a payment that is typically scheduled and and identified. Um but there is an ability to modify that depending on the scope of the work and the the final work completed. >> You know I think my concern is that we have a situation here that you know they can make a compelling argument. They've got construction both sides of the street. There's concerns in terms of the safety of of you know students and pedestrians. Um, however, you mentioned earlier that it's the first of more to come, right? And so, essentially what we're doing now is we're setting the precedent for what happens in the future. And right now, we have legislation passed, which should be our precedent, right? That should be our our starting point. And we're now having a conversation and saying, well, because of the unique situation, we need to change it. And that kind of goes against the whole intention of having legislation that applies uniformly to everybody. >> So council I think then as we have been talking about this and and identifying um you know when when this design was done when the feeru structure was developed and the fee schedule was intended. I know I mentioned this earlier it was a full road closure that was not anticipated. So I know there's other projects that are under construction right now including the hotel including the Ostramm dormatory complex. um it's it's a different situation when it is a full road closure. Um there are going to be other projects that we anticipate that may involve a a closure of a roadway. And I think one of the things we want to be looking at and really trying to understand and be thoughtful around is if there are moments in which the the way in which the fee schedule currently is structured in which it's a 14-day renewal when that sort of road closure takes place h and is happening. is that does that make projects economically infeasible? And and this is more looking across the board at projects in the city. And so if there is, and this is part of the reason why we've gone back and and have been looking at this, if that ultimately is the case where it the the way that cumulatively works over the course of a time frame in which the way that that formula currently is scheduled and compounding is that it has potentially um the ability for projects to not move forward or for not to not pencil out properly. And so I think it's one of the unintended effects potentially of the way that the fee schedule is written now.