the street numerous times a day. Can >> I can I ask a quick question just about the construction? Neither of these projects are going to be energy independent. Correct. >> Um no, they're not. They're provided by uh through national grid. Yeah. Power from National Grid. >> So you're not going for any sort of lead standards with this? We're going for we are optimizing their lowest energy use index possible for the construction. So they are high energy heat pump buildings. >> Okay. >> And clarification, Eric, the the two people who were hit by the dump truck last year or the two dump truck incidents and the trolley incident, I think they're the most recent loss of life on SU campus. I don't believe those were construction related, right? Those were just normal course of traffic. So my my understanding is that there is a separate from the projects taking place here but there there is a residential housing development taking place further down University of my my recollection of this is that it was a construction vehicle related to that project that was involved in the um in the it was two students I believe that was part of one incident and I believe it was construction attributed to to that project. >> Thank you for clarifying. >> Yes absolutely. So that's what I was going to point to that um although you have precautions in place around the construction site, I think that anyone who's doing any type of um construction work travel in the complete area, probably a onem square um they need to be highly um attentive to pedestrians um because apparently we was told that because the vehicle sits so high that I don't know how you miss two people. But um that was, you know, part of the reason. And a lot of these are kids. They're like, you know, just out of high school, per se, and you know, learning a new city themselves. So I think that it's not just the direct area, but it needs to be a broader area that is identified as um cautious. >> It's I think Ostram is a good example of this and and counselor to your point. Um, so Syracuse police, when we talk about that liability waiver and ultimately the the liability waivers, the the vehicle that could allow a road closure to take place. Syracuse police and Syracuse fire are departments that provide comments and review. One of the pieces of feedback was Ostramm right now. You have cars and because you have topography up there, you're going up on Ostrom. Cars do tend to speed there. So those four-way stops uh were implemented as part of this work. Those did not exist on Ostramm before. was part of the reason why to help slow down and given that between Thornton Park and the campus, you do have a lot of people crossing and and sometimes crossing in areas they're not supposed to. So, part of the reason why that that was recommended, I think it was two four-way stops, I believe that was implemented, that was based on SPD, Syracuse Police recommendation, and that was designed to help improve safety uh in light of the in light of the project. >> For the record, I've heard a lot of people like those being there >> independent of of the construction. Understood. >> Could I ask another question? Um what is the total project cost for >> these? Roughly 253 million hard cost construction plus soft cost over and above that. >> Is that the individual projects or the combined? >> Two combined. >> So all three residence hall projects total about uh $360 million in construction value. >> We're probably going to employ between 600 and 700 people on the site over the course of the construction project. I think we are all very grateful and appreciative to her hoy for the great work that you do. I would like you to use more vibrant colors, but otherwise I think that your construction, you know, you guys are very active. You are you are adding to the buildings in our area. We see you as an employer and welcome that um we are making sure that we do the right thing in terms of the city permitting processes, making sure that we are following the rules that we have set in place which is fair for everybody. Any other questions? >> Well, that will conclude our meeting. Thank you, Eric. Thank you to both of you. Thank you, counselors. Uh, that will be it for us. Thank you.